name: [[Beast Shape I]]V
school: transmutation
subschool: polymorph
descriptor: 0
spell_level: [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 6
casting_time: 1 standard action
components: V, S, M (a piece of the creature whose form you plan to assume)
costly_components: 0
range: personal
area: 0
effect: 0
targets: you
duration: 1 min./level
dismissible: 1
shapeable: 0
saving_throw: 0
spell_resistence: 0
description: This spell functions as beast shape III except that it also allows you to assume the form of a Tiny or Large creature of the magical beast type. If the form you assume has any of the following abilities, you gain the listed ability: burrow 60 feet, climb 90 feet, fly 120 feet (good maneuverability), swim 120 feet, blindsense 60 feet, darkvision 90 feet, low-light vision, scent, tremorsense 60 feet, breath weapon, constrict, ferocity, grab, jet, poison, pounce, rake, rend, roar, spikes, trample, trip, and web. If the creature has immunity or resistance to any elements, you gain resistance 20 to those elements. If the creature has vulnerability to an element, you gain that vulnerability. Diminutive animal: If the form you take is that of a Diminutive animal, you gain a +6 size bonus to your Dexterity, a -4 penalty to your Strength, and a +1 natural [[armor]] bonus. Tiny animal: If the form you take is that of a Tiny animal, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Dexterity, a -2 penalty to your Strength, and a +1 natural [[armor]] bonus. Small animal: If the form you take is that of a Small animal, you gain a +2 size bonus to your Dexterity and a +1 natural [[armor]] bonus. [[Medium]] animal: If the form you take is that of a [[Medium]] animal, you gain a +2 size bonus to your Strength and a +2 natural [[armor]] bonus. Large animal: If the form you take is that of a Large animal, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Strength, a -2 penalty to your Dexterity, and a +4 natural [[armor]] bonus. Huge animal: If the form you take is that of a Huge animal, you gain a +6 size bonus to your Strength, a -4 penalty to your Dexterity, and a +6 natural [[armor]] bonus. Tiny magical beast: If the form you take is that of a Tiny magical beast, you gain a -2 penalty to your Strength, a +8 size bonus to your Dexterity, and a +3 natural [[armor]] bonus. Small magical beast: If the form you take is that of a Small magical beast, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Dexterity, and a +2 natural [[armor]] bonus. [[Medium]] magical beast: If the form you take is that of a [[Medium]] magical beast, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Strength, and a +4 natural [[armor]] bonus. Large magical beast: If the form you take is that of a Large magical beast, you gain a +6 size bonus to your Strength, a -2 penalty on your Dexterity, a +2 size bonus to your Constitution, and a +6 natural [[armor]] bonus.
description_formated: <p>This spell functions as <i>beast shape III</i> except that it also allows you to assume the form of a Tiny or Large creature of the magical beast type. If the form you assume has any of the following abilities, you gain the listed ability: burrow 60 feet, climb 90 feet, fly 120 feet (good maneuverability), swim 120 feet, blindsense 60 feet, darkvision 90 feet, low-light vision, scent, tremorsense 60 feet, breath weapon, constrict, ferocity, grab, jet, poison, pounce, rake, rend, roar, spikes, trample, trip, and web. If the creature has immunity or resistance to any elements, you gain resistance 20 to those elements. If the creature has vulnerability to an element, you gain that vulnerability.</p><p><i>Diminutive animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a Diminutive animal, you gain a +6 size bonus to your Dexterity, a -4 penalty to your Strength, and a +1 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Tiny animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a Tiny animal, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Dexterity, a -2 penalty to your Strength, and a +1 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Small animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a Small animal, you gain a +2 size bonus to your Dexterity and a +1 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>[[Medium]] animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a [[Medium]] animal, you gain a +2 size bonus to your Strength and a +2 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Large animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a Large animal, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Strength, a -2 penalty to your Dexterity, and a +4 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Huge animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a Huge animal, you gain a +6 size bonus to your Strength, a -4 penalty to your Dexterity, and a +6 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Tiny magical beast</i>: If the form you take is that of a Tiny magical beast, you gain a -2 penalty to your Strength, a +8 size bonus to your Dexterity, and a +3 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Small magical beast</i>: If the form you take is that of a Small magical beast, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Dexterity, and a +2 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>[[Medium]] magical beast</i>: If the form you take is that of a [[Medium]] magical beast, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Strength, and a +4 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Large magical beast</i>: If the form you take is that of a Large magical beast, you gain a +6 size bonus to your Strength, a -2 penalty on your Dexterity, a +2 size bonus to your Constitution, and a +6 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p>
source: PFRPG Core
full_text: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Beast Shape I]]V</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>School </b>transmutation (polymorph); <b>Level </b>[[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 6</h5><h5><b>Casting Time </b>1 standard action</h5><h5><b>Components </b>V, S, M (a piece of the creature whose form you plan to assume)</h5><h5><b>Range </b>personal</h5><h5><b>Targets </b> you</h5><h5><b>Duration </b>1 min./level (D)</h5></div><div><h4><p>This spell functions as <i>beast shape III</i> except that it also allows you to assume the form of a Tiny or Large creature of the magical beast type. If the form you assume has any of the following abilities, you gain the listed ability: burrow 60 feet, climb 90 feet, fly 120 feet (good maneuverability), swim 120 feet, blindsense 60 feet, darkvision 90 feet, low-light vision, scent, tremorsense 60 feet, breath weapon, constrict, ferocity, grab, jet, poison, pounce, rake, rend, roar, spikes, trample, trip, and web. If the creature has immunity or resistance to any elements, you gain resistance 20 to those elements. If the creature has vulnerability to an element, you gain that vulnerability.</p><p><i>Diminutive animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a Diminutive animal, you gain a +6 size bonus to your Dexterity, a -4 penalty to your Strength, and a +1 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Tiny animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a Tiny animal, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Dexterity, a -2 penalty to your Strength, and a +1 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Small animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a Small animal, you gain a +2 size bonus to your Dexterity and a +1 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>[[Medium]] animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a [[Medium]] animal, you gain a +2 size bonus to your Strength and a +2 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Large animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a Large animal, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Strength, a -2 penalty to your Dexterity, and a +4 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Huge animal</i>: If the form you take is that of a Huge animal, you gain a +6 size bonus to your Strength, a -4 penalty to your Dexterity, and a +6 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Tiny magical beast</i>: If the form you take is that of a Tiny magical beast, you gain a -2 penalty to your Strength, a +8 size bonus to your Dexterity, and a +3 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Small magical beast</i>: If the form you take is that of a Small magical beast, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Dexterity, and a +2 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>[[Medium]] magical beast</i>: If the form you take is that of a [[Medium]] magical beast, you gain a +4 size bonus to your Strength, and a +4 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p><p><i>Large magical beast</i>: If the form you take is that of a Large magical beast, you gain a +6 size bonus to your Strength, a -2 penalty on your Dexterity, a +2 size bonus to your Constitution, and a +6 natural [[armor]] bonus.</p></h4></div>
verbal: 1
somatic: 1
material: 1
[[focus]]: 0
divine_[[focus]]: 0
sor: 6.0
wiz: 6.0
[[cleric]]: 0
[[druid]]: 0
[[ranger]]: 0
[[bard]]: 0
[[paladin]]: 0
deity: 0
