Name: [[Book Of The [[Damned]]: Complete]]
Aura: overwhelming all schools [chaotic, lawful, evil]
CL: 25
Slot: item
Price: 0
Weight: 40 lbs.
Description: The Book of the [[Damned]] contains the multiverse's single greatest collection of profane lore, detailing the evil planes and their denizens with an audacious comprehensiveness beyond that which a tome of its size should be able to physically contain. This blasphemous book consists of numerous scattered chapters divided into three volumes-daemonic, demonic, and diabolic. Should all chapters of those three volumes be united in their entirety, the completed compilation exhibits the following abilities. The complete Book of the [[Damned]] radiates a permanent unhallow effect in a 150-foot radius and a sympathy effect tuned to attract all evil creatures. Any creature of good alignment that willingly touches the tome must succeed at a DC 20 Fortitude save or be immediately slain. Additionally, while the Book of the [[Damned]] is outside of its repository (see below), any evil being of demigod-level [[power]] (daemonic harbingers, demon lords, infernal dukes) or greater using scry or a similar spell can view the Book of the [[Damned]] with no risk of being detected by the bearer. Finally, any creatures that make use of any of the tome's abilities are damned, condemned to one of the Lower Planes after death regardless of their deeds. Only the intervention of a deity can prevent this punishment. The complete compilation of the Book of the [[Damned]] can be used in multiple ways-as a profane talisman, as an obscene reference volume, and as a gate to the multiverse's most complete repository of unholy lore. Talisman: As long as the book is carried, its owner casts all spells with the evil descriptor as if she were two caster levels higher and gains a +5 bonus on all Charisma-based skills and checks made when interacting with evil outsiders. The bearer can also make use of the following spell-like abilities: At will-align weapon (evil only), bestow curse, detect evil, speak with dead 3/day-banishment, blasphemy, dictum, magic circle, unhallow, unholy aura, unholy blight, word of chaos 1/day-dimensional lock, gate, greater planar binding, soul bind Reference: Any character who can read Abyssal, Celestial, and Infernal and who spends a total of 30 days (not necessarily contiguously) studying the tome learns soul-tainting secrets- the ultimate blasphemies of all creation. The bearer gains a +10 bonus on Knowledge (planes) checks whenever she consults the book for 1 hour regarding a question. Additionally, the book's descriptions of Abaddon, the Abyss, and Hell prove so vivid that any teleportation to or within those planes always brings the caster to the desired location (no familiarity roll needed). The bearer of the Book of the [[Damned]] also gains a +5 bonus on the opposed Charisma check required by the planar binding spell (this bonus stacks with the +5 bonus the tome grants on interactions with evil outsiders). Once per day, the bearer can ask the tome a question relating to any profane topic; she then opens the book to a random page to find the answer, revealed as if the bearer had cast vision. The book also contains a copy of every spell with the evil spell descriptor. Repository: Once per day, the bearer of the Book of the [[Damned]] can cause the tome to disappear into its own internal demiplane, leaving behind a sinister shimmering portal. This reproduces the effects of a mage's magnificent mansion spell, allowing the bearer and those she chooses to enter an unnerving but semi-safe library filled with the countless volumes of blasphemous records the Book of the [[Damned]] merely serves as a window upon. The book and those within the repository are affected by a [[power]]ful nondetection effect, shielding all within from the sight of even the gods. Creatures do not age while inside, although upon leaving, they immediately age an amount equal to the time spent inside. While within the demiplane, visitors may access any of the [[power]]s described in the Reference section. Creatures of nonevil alignment find the macabre surroundings and frightening servants within the repository unsettling, and must succeed at a DC 30 Will save or be afflicted as if by the nightmare spell every time they attempt to rest within. Nothing can prevent this effect. The entrance to the Book of the [[Damned]]'s repository can be entered by creatures other than those the bearer chooses on certain nights, specifically during lunar eclipses and the midnight hour on the night of a new moon, during which time the barely visible portal manifests as a normal door.
Requirements: 0
Cost: 0
Group: Artifact
Source: Artifacts & Legends
AL: 0
Int: 0
Wis: 0
Cha: 0
Ego: 0
Communication: 0
Senses: 0
Powers: 0
MagicItems: 0
FullText: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Book Of The [[Damned]]: Complete]] (Major Artifact)</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>Aura </b>overwhelming all schools [chaotic, lawful, evil]; <b>CL </b>25th</h5><h5><b>Slot </b>none; <b>Weight </b>40 lbs.</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>The <i>Book of the [[Damned]]</i> contains the multiverse's single greatest collection of profane lore, detailing the evil planes and their denizens with an audacious comprehensiveness beyond that which a tome of its size should be able to physically contain. This blasphemous book consists of numerous scattered chapters divided into three volumes-daemonic, demonic, and diabolic. Should all chapters of those three volumes be united in their entirety, the completed compilation exhibits the following abilities. The complete <i>Book of the [[Damned]]</i> radiates a permanent <i>unhallow</i> effect in a 150-foot radius and a <i>sympathy</i> effect tuned to attract all evil creatures. Any creature of good alignment that willingly touches the tome must succeed at a DC 20 Fortitude save or be immediately slain. Additionally, while the <i>Book of the [[Damned]]</i> is outside of its repository (see below), any evil being of demigod-level [[power]] (daemonic harbingers, demon lords, infernal dukes) or greater using <i>scry</i> or a similar spell can view the <i>Book of the [[Damned]]</i> with no risk of being detected by the bearer. Finally, any creatures that make use of any of the tome's abilities are damned, condemned to one of the Lower Planes after death regardless of their deeds. Only the intervention of a deity can prevent this punishment. The complete compilation of the <i>Book of the [[Damned]]</i> can be used in multiple ways-as a profane talisman, as an obscene reference volume, and as a <i>gate</i> to the multiverse's most complete repository of unholy lore. <br><b>Talisman</b>: As long as the book is carried, its owner casts all spells with the evil descriptor as if she were two caster levels higher and gains a +5 bonus on all Charisma-based skills and checks made when interacting with evil outsiders. The bearer can also make use of the following spell-like abilities: At will-<i>align weapon</i> (evil only), <i>bestow curse</i>, <i>detect evil</i>, <i>speak with dead</i> 3/day-<i>banishment</i>, <i>blasphemy</i>, <i>dictum</i>, <i>magic circle</i>, <i>unhallow</i>, <i>unholy aura</i>, <i>unholy blight</i>, <i>word of chaos</i> 1/day-<i>dimensional lock</i>, <i>gate</i>, <i>greater <i>planar binding</i></i>, <i>soul bind</i> <br><b>Reference</b>: Any character who can read Abyssal, Celestial, and Infernal and who spends a total of 30 days (not necessarily contiguously) studying the tome learns soul-tainting secrets- the ultimate blasphemies of all creation. The bearer gains a +10 bonus on Knowledge (planes) checks whenever she consults the book for 1 hour regarding a question. Additionally, the book's descriptions of Abaddon, the Abyss, and Hell prove so vivid that any teleportation to or within those planes always brings the caster to the desired location (no familiarity roll needed). The bearer of the <i>Book of the [[Damned]]</i> also gains a +5 bonus on the opposed Charisma check required by the <i>planar binding</i> spell (this bonus stacks with the +5 bonus the tome grants on interactions with evil outsiders). Once per day, the bearer can ask the tome a question relating to any profane topic; she then opens the book to a random page to find the answer, revealed as if the bearer had cast <i>vision</i>. The book also contains a copy of every spell with the evil spell descriptor. <br><b>Repository</b>: Once per day, the bearer of the <i>Book of the [[Damned]]</i> can cause the tome to disappear into its own internal demiplane, leaving behind a sinister shimmering portal. This reproduces the effects of a mage's magnificent mansion spell, allowing the bearer and those she chooses to enter an unnerving but semi-safe library filled with the countless volumes of blasphemous records the <i>Book of the [[Damned]]</i> merely serves as a window upon. The book and those within the repository are affected by a [[power]]ful <i>nondetection</i> effect, shielding all within from the sight of even the gods. Creatures do not age while inside, although upon leaving, they immediately age an amount equal to the time spent inside. While within the demiplane, visitors may access any of the [[power]]s described in the Reference section. Creatures of nonevil alignment find the macabre surroundings and frightening servants within the repository unsettling, and must succeed at a DC 30 Will save or be afflicted as if by the <i>nightmare</i> spell every time they attempt to rest within. Nothing can prevent this effect. The entrance to the <i>Book of the [[Damned]]</i>'s repository can be entered by creatures other than those the bearer chooses on certain nights, specifically during lunar eclipses and the midnight hour on the night of a new moon, during which time the barely visible portal manifests as a normal door.</p></h4></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESTRUCTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>The <i>Book of the [[Damned]]</i> must be divided into its varied chapters and each must be destroyed separately within the span of 1 day. The chapter on the daemonic requires the pages be scrubbed of ink by the tears of a good outsider, the pages of the demonic chapter must be fed to a good or lawful outsider, and the diabolic chapter must serve as kindling for a pyre that burns a good or chaotic outsider alive. If all of the chapters are not destroyed at the end of 1 day, any destroyed chapters reappear undamaged in an obscure corner of the multiverse.</p></h4></div>
[[Destruction]]: The Book of the [[Damned]] must be divided into its varied chapters and each must be destroyed separately within the span of 1 day. The chapter on the daemonic requires the pages be scrubbed of ink by the tears of a good outsider, the pages of the demonic chapter must be fed to a good or lawful outsider, and the diabolic chapter must serve as kindling for a pyre that burns a good or chaotic outsider alive. If all of the chapters are not destroyed at the end of 1 day, any destroyed chapters reappear undamaged in an obscure corner of the multiverse.
MinorArtifactFlag: 0
MajorArtifactFlag: 1
Abjuration: 0
Conjuration: 0
[[Divination]]: 0
Enchantment: 0
Evocation: 0
Necromancy: 0
Transmutation: 0
AuraStrength: none
WeightValue: 40.0
PriceValue: 0
CostValue: 0
Languages: 0
BaseItem: 0
LinkText: 0
id: 2468
Mythic: 0
LegendaryWeapon: 0
Illusion: 0
Universal: 0
effects: 0
