name: [[Contact Other Plane]]
school: divination
subschool: 0
descriptor: 0
spell_level: [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 5
casting_time: 10 minutes
components: V
costly_components: 0
range: personal
area: 0
effect: 0
targets: you
duration: concentration
dismissible: 0
shapeable: 0
saving_throw: 0
spell_resistence: 0
description: You send your mind to another plane of existence (an Elemental Plane or some plane farther removed) in order to receive advice and information from [[power]]s there. See the accompanying table for possible consequences and results of the attempt. The [[power]]s reply in a language you understand, but they resent such contact and give only brief answers to your questions. All questions are answered with "yes," "no," "maybe," "never," "irrelevant," or some other one-word answer. You must concentrate on maintaining the spell (a standard action) in order to ask questions at the rate of one per round. A question is answered by the [[power]] during the same round. You may ask one question for every two caster levels. Contact with minds far removed from your home plane increases the probability that you will incur a decrease in Intelligence and Charisma due to your brain being overwhelmed, but also increases the chance of the [[power]] knowing the answer and answering correctly. Once the Outer Planes are reached, the [[power]] of the deity contacted determines the effects. (Random results obtained from the table are subject to the personalities of individual deities.) On rare occasions, this divination may be blocked by an act of certain deities or forces. Avoid Int/Cha Decrease: You must succeed on an Intelligence check against this DC to avoid a decrease in Intelligence and Charisma. If the check fails, your Intelligence and Charisma scores each fall to 8 for the stated duration, and you become unable to cast arcane spells. If you lose Intelligence and Charisma, the effect strikes as soon as the first question is asked, and no answer is received. If a successful contact is made, roll d% to determine the type of answer you gain. True Answer: You get a true, one-word answer. Questions that cannot be answered in this way are answered randomly. Don't Know: The entity tells you that it doesn't know. Lie: The entity intentionally lies to you. Random Answer: The entity tries to lie but doesn't know the answer, so it makes one up.  Plane Contacted  Avoid Int/Cha Decrease  True Answer  Don't Know  Lie  Random Answer Elemental Plane  DC 7/1 week  01-34  35-62  63-83  84-100 Positive/Negative Energy Plane  DC 8/1 week  01-39  40-65  66-86  87-100 Astral Plane  DC 9/1 week  01-44  45-67  68-88  89-100 Outer Plane, demigod  DC 10/2 weeks  01-49  50-70  71-91  92-100 Outer Plane, lesser deity  DC 12/3 weeks  01-60  61-75  76-95  96-100 Outer Plane, intermediate deity  DC 14/4 weeks  01-73  74-81  82-98  99-100 Outer Plane, greater deity
description_formated: <p>You send your mind to another plane of existence (an Elemental Plane or some plane farther removed) in order to receive advice and information from [[power]]s there. See the accompanying table for possible consequences and results of the attempt. The [[power]]s reply in a language you understand, but they resent such contact and give only brief answers to your questions. All questions are answered with "yes," "no," "maybe," "never," "irrelevant," or some other one-word answer.</p><p>You must concentrate on maintaining the spell (a standard action) in order to ask questions at the rate of one per round. A question is answered by the [[power]] during the same round. You may ask one question for every two caster levels.</p><p>Contact with minds far removed from your home plane increases the probability that you will incur a decrease in Intelligence and Charisma due to your brain being overwhelmed, but also increases the chance of the [[power]] knowing the answer and answering correctly. Once the Outer Planes are reached, the [[power]] of the deity contacted determines the effects. (Random results obtained from the table are subject to the personalities of individual deities.) On rare occasions, this divination may be blocked by an act of certain deities or forces.</p><p><i>Avoid Int/Cha Decrease</i>: You must succeed on an Intelligence check against this DC to avoid a decrease in Intelligence and Charisma. If the check fails, your Intelligence and Charisma scores each fall to 8 for the stated duration, and you become unable to cast arcane spells. If you lose Intelligence and Charisma, the effect strikes as soon as the first question is asked, and no answer is received. If a successful contact is made, roll d% to determine the type of answer you gain.</p><p><i>True Answer</i>: You get a true, one-word answer. Questions that cannot be answered in this way are answered randomly.</p><p><i>Don't Know</i>: The entity tells you that it doesn't know.</p><p><i>Lie</i>: The entity intentionally lies to you.</p><p><i>Random Answer</i>: The entity tries to lie but doesn't know the answer, so it makes one up.</p><p> <table> <tr> <td>[[Contact Other Plane]]</td> </tr> <tr> <th>Plane Contacted</th> <th>Avoid Int/Cha Decrease</th>  <th>True Answer</th> <th>Don't Know</th> <th>Lie</th> <th>Random Answer</th> </tr> <tr> <td>Elemental Plane</td> <td>DC 7/1 week</td> <td>01-34</td>  <td>35-62</td> <td>63-83</td> <td>84-100</td> </tr> <tr> <td>Positive/Negative Energy Plane</td> <td>DC 8/1 week</td> <td>01-39</td> <td>40-65</td> <td>66-86</td>  <td>87-100</td> </tr> <tr> <td>Astral Plane</td> <td>DC 9/1 week</td> <td>01-44</td> <td>45-67</td> <td>68-88</td> <td>89-100</td> </tr>  <tr> <td>Outer Plane, demigod</td> <td>DC 10/2 weeks</td> <td>01-49</td> <td>50-70</td> <td>71-91</td> <td>92-100</td> </tr> <tr> <td>Outer Plane, lesser deity</td>  <td>DC 12/3 weeks</td> <td>01-60</td> <td>61-75</td> <td>76-95</td> <td>96-100</td> </tr> <tr> <td>Outer Plane, intermediate deity</td> <td>DC 14/4 weeks</td> <td>01-73</td>  <td>74-81</td> <td>82-98</td> <td>99-100</td> </tr> <tr> <td>Outer Plane, greater deity</td> <td>DC 16/5 weeks</td> <td>01-88</td> <td>89-90</td> <td>91-99</td>  <td>100</td> </tr> </table></p>
source: PFRPG Core
full_text: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Contact Other Plane]]</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>School </b>divination; <b>Level </b>[[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 5</h5><h5><b>Casting Time </b>10 minutes</h5><h5><b>Components </b>V</h5><h5><b>Range </b>personal</h5><h5><b>Targets </b> you</h5><h5><b>Duration </b>concentration</h5></div><div><h4><p>You send your mind to another plane of existence (an Elemental Plane or some plane farther removed) in order to receive advice and information from [[power]]s there. See the accompanying table for possible consequences and results of the attempt. The [[power]]s reply in a language you understand, but they resent such contact and give only brief answers to your questions. All questions are answered with "yes," "no," "maybe," "never," "irrelevant," or some other one-word answer.</p><p>You must concentrate on maintaining the spell (a standard action) in order to ask questions at the rate of one per round. A question is answered by the [[power]] during the same round. You may ask one question for every two caster levels.</p><p>Contact with minds far removed from your home plane increases the probability that you will incur a decrease in Intelligence and Charisma due to your brain being overwhelmed, but also increases the chance of the [[power]] knowing the answer and answering correctly. Once the Outer Planes are reached, the [[power]] of the deity contacted determines the effects. (Random results obtained from the table are subject to the personalities of individual deities.) On rare occasions, this divination may be blocked by an act of certain deities or forces.</p><p><i>Avoid Int/Cha Decrease</i>: You must succeed on an Intelligence check against this DC to avoid a decrease in Intelligence and Charisma. If the check fails, your Intelligence and Charisma scores each fall to 8 for the stated duration, and you become unable to cast arcane spells. If you lose Intelligence and Charisma, the effect strikes as soon as the first question is asked, and no answer is received. If a successful contact is made, roll d% to determine the type of answer you gain.</p><p><i>True Answer</i>: You get a true, one-word answer. Questions that cannot be answered in this way are answered randomly.</p><p><i>Don't Know</i>: The entity tells you that it doesn't know.</p><p><i>Lie</i>: The entity intentionally lies to you.</p><p><i>Random Answer</i>: The entity tries to lie but doesn't know the answer, so it makes one up.</p><p> <table> <tr> <td>[[Contact Other Plane]]</td> </tr> <tr> <th>Plane Contacted</th> <th>Avoid Int/Cha Decrease</th>  <th>True Answer</th> <th>Don't Know</th> <th>Lie</th> <th>Random Answer</th> </tr> <tr> <td>Elemental Plane</td> <td>DC 7/1 week</td> <td>01-34</td>  <td>35-62</td> <td>63-83</td> <td>84-100</td> </tr> <tr> <td>Positive/Negative Energy Plane</td> <td>DC 8/1 week</td> <td>01-39</td> <td>40-65</td> <td>66-86</td>  <td>87-100</td> </tr> <tr> <td>Astral Plane</td> <td>DC 9/1 week</td> <td>01-44</td> <td>45-67</td> <td>68-88</td> <td>89-100</td> </tr>  <tr> <td>Outer Plane, demigod</td> <td>DC 10/2 weeks</td> <td>01-49</td> <td>50-70</td> <td>71-91</td> <td>92-100</td> </tr> <tr> <td>Outer Plane, lesser deity</td>  <td>DC 12/3 weeks</td> <td>01-60</td> <td>61-75</td> <td>76-95</td> <td>96-100</td> </tr> <tr> <td>Outer Plane, intermediate deity</td> <td>DC 14/4 weeks</td> <td>01-73</td>  <td>74-81</td> <td>82-98</td> <td>99-100</td> </tr> <tr> <td>Outer Plane, greater deity</td> <td>DC 16/5 weeks</td> <td>01-88</td> <td>89-90</td> <td>91-99</td>  <td>100</td> </tr> </table></p></h4></div>
verbal: 1
somatic: 0
material: 0
[[focus]]: 0
divine_[[focus]]: 0
sor: 5.0
wiz: 5.0
[[cleric]]: 0
[[druid]]: 0
[[ranger]]: 0
[[bard]]: 0
[[paladin]]: 0
deity: 0
