name: [[Genius Avaricious]]
school: conjuration
subschool: creation evil
descriptor: 0
spell_level: [[cleric]] 6, [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 6
casting_time: 10 minutes
components: V, S, M (valuable o!erings; see text), F (one gold coin)
costly_components: 0
range: touch
area: 0
effect: a vestige of the archdevil Mammon imbues a coin with a negotiable degree of [[power]].
targets: 0
duration: instantaneous (see text)
dismissible: 0
shapeable: 0
saving_throw: none
spell_resistence: no
description: Casting this spell constitutes performing a rite of sacrifice to the archdevil Mammon, making an o!ering to the Lord of Erebus and channeling a measure of his disembodied might into a single coin.  The [[power]] and abilities of this vestige correspond directly to the value of the o!ering, allowing for three distinct e!ects.  Corrupted Coin: Making a sacrifice worth 1,500 gp corrupts the [[focus]] into a "lucky" or "unlucky" coin as per the caster's will for 1 month. Any creature that bears the coin gains a bonus or penalty (decided by the caster at the time of casting) on all Appraise, Blu!, Cra", and Profession checks. This bonus or penalty is equal to 1 per 3 caster levels (maximum +5 at 15th level). In addition, the coin can produce an e!ect similar to the spell augury once per day-its flip producing a weal (heads), woe (tails), or nothing result (landing on the edge). Potentially unknown to the bearer (if di!erent from the caster), the caster can telepathically hear any question asked of the coin and, as a free action, influence the result as he chooses.  Mammon's Mantle: Making a sacrifice worth 3,000 gp transforms the coin into a kind of infernal aegis for any who swallow the coin.  Upon ingesting the coin, the target gains a bonus to Charisma equal to +1 per 3 caster levels (maximum +5 at 15th level). The bearer's blood also takes on a hue like liquid gold and runs slowly, granting him immunity to poison, disease, and aging e!ects, and causing him to automatically stabilize if reduced to fewer than 0 hit points.  Additionally, the bearer can eat gold to heal himself, regaining 1 hit point for every 20 gold pieces he consumes (materials other than gold provide no benefit). The coin's e!ects last for 1 day per caster level.  Gold Guardian: Making a sacrifice worth 6,000 gp allows the [[focus]] coin to animate nearby coins. When cast into a pile of 100,000 coins, an animate hoard (see previous page) forms under the control of the caster. The guardian serves for 1 month. A"er this month, coins begin disappearing from the guardian at a rate of 100 gp per day, reducing the creature's hit points by 1 per day. When the guardian's hit points reach 0, the guardian collapses and the [[focus]] coin is destroyed. Coins lost from the guardian can be replaced, restoring any lost hit points.  In addition to the e!ects of any of these o!erings, should the [[focus]] coin be swallowed, any being sired or conceived by the creature while the magic is in e!ect is born as a tiefling (bearing an indirect relation to Mammon himself ).
description_formated: <p>Casting this spell constitutes performing a rite of sacrifice to the archdevil Mammon, making an o!ering to the Lord of Erebus and channeling a measure of his disembodied might into a single coin.</p><p>The [[power]] and abilities of this vestige correspond directly to the value of the o!ering, allowing for three distinct e!ects.</p><p><i>Corrupted Coin</i>: Making a sacrifice worth 1,500 gp corrupts the [[focus]] into a "lucky" or "unlucky" coin as per the caster's will for 1 month. Any creature that bears the coin gains a bonus or penalty (decided by the caster at the time of casting) on all Appraise, Blu!, Cra", and Profession checks. This bonus or penalty is equal to 1 per 3 caster levels (maximum +5 at 15th level). In addition, the coin can produce an e!ect similar to the spell <i>augury</i> once per day-its flip producing a weal (heads), woe (tails), or nothing result (landing on the edge). Potentially unknown to the bearer (if di!erent from the caster), the caster can telepathically hear any question asked of the coin and, as a free action, influence the result as he chooses.</p><p>Mammon's Mantle: Making a sacrifice worth 3,000 gp transforms the coin into a kind of infernal aegis for any who swallow the coin.</p><p>Upon ingesting the coin, the target gains a bonus to Charisma equal to +1 per 3 caster levels (maximum +5 at 15th level). The bearer's blood also takes on a hue like liquid gold and runs slowly, granting him immunity to poison, disease, and aging e!ects, and causing him to automatically stabilize if reduced to fewer than 0 hit points.</p><p>Additionally, the bearer can eat gold to heal himself, regaining 1 hit point for every 20 gold pieces he consumes (materials other than gold provide no benefit). The coin's e!ects last for 1 day per caster level.</p><p><i>Gold Guardian</i>: Making a sacrifice worth 6,000 gp allows the [[focus]] coin to animate nearby coins. When cast into a pile of 100,000 coins, an animate hoard (see previous page) forms under the control of the caster. The guardian serves for 1 month. A"er this month, coins begin disappearing from the guardian at a rate of 100 gp per day, reducing the creature's hit points by 1 per day. When the guardian's hit points reach 0, the guardian collapses and the [[focus]] coin is destroyed. Coins lost from the guardian can be replaced, restoring any lost hit points.</p><p>In addition to the e!ects of any of these o!erings, should the [[focus]] coin be swallowed, any being sired or conceived by the creature while the magic is in e!ect is born as a tiefling (bearing an indirect relation to Mammon himself ).</p>
source: AP 30
full_text: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Genius Avaricious]]</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>School </b>conjuration (creation evil); <b>Level </b>[[cleric]] 6, [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 6</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>CASTING</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Casting Time </b>10 minutes</h5><h5><b>Components </b>V, S, M (valuable o!erings; see text), F (one gold coin)</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>EFFECT</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Range </b>touch</h5><h5><b>Effect </b>a vestige of the archdevil Mammon imbues a coin with a negotiable degree of [[power]].</h5><h5><b>Duration </b>instantaneous (see text)</h5><h5><b>Saving Throw </b>none; <b>Spell [[Resistance]] </b>no</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>Casting this spell constitutes performing a rite of sacrifice to the archdevil Mammon, making an o!ering to the Lord of Erebus and channeling a measure of his disembodied might into a single coin.</p><p>The [[power]] and abilities of this vestige correspond directly to the value of the o!ering, allowing for three distinct e!ects.</p><p><i>Corrupted Coin</i>: Making a sacrifice worth 1,500 gp corrupts the [[focus]] into a "lucky" or "unlucky" coin as per the caster's will for 1 month. Any creature that bears the coin gains a bonus or penalty (decided by the caster at the time of casting) on all Appraise, Blu!, Cra", and Profession checks. This bonus or penalty is equal to 1 per 3 caster levels (maximum +5 at 15th level). In addition, the coin can produce an e!ect similar to the spell <i>augury</i> once per day-its flip producing a weal (heads), woe (tails), or nothing result (landing on the edge). Potentially unknown to the bearer (if di!erent from the caster), the caster can telepathically hear any question asked of the coin and, as a free action, influence the result as he chooses.</p><p>Mammon's Mantle: Making a sacrifice worth 3,000 gp transforms the coin into a kind of infernal aegis for any who swallow the coin.</p><p>Upon ingesting the coin, the target gains a bonus to Charisma equal to +1 per 3 caster levels (maximum +5 at 15th level). The bearer's blood also takes on a hue like liquid gold and runs slowly, granting him immunity to poison, disease, and aging e!ects, and causing him to automatically stabilize if reduced to fewer than 0 hit points.</p><p>Additionally, the bearer can eat gold to heal himself, regaining 1 hit point for every 20 gold pieces he consumes (materials other than gold provide no benefit). The coin's e!ects last for 1 day per caster level.</p><p><i>Gold Guardian</i>: Making a sacrifice worth 6,000 gp allows the [[focus]] coin to animate nearby coins. When cast into a pile of 100,000 coins, an animate hoard (see previous page) forms under the control of the caster. The guardian serves for 1 month. A"er this month, coins begin disappearing from the guardian at a rate of 100 gp per day, reducing the creature's hit points by 1 per day. When the guardian's hit points reach 0, the guardian collapses and the [[focus]] coin is destroyed. Coins lost from the guardian can be replaced, restoring any lost hit points.</p><p>In addition to the e!ects of any of these o!erings, should the [[focus]] coin be swallowed, any being sired or conceived by the creature while the magic is in e!ect is born as a tiefling (bearing an indirect relation to Mammon himself ).</p></h4></div>
verbal: 1
somatic: 1
material: 1
[[focus]]: 0
divine_[[focus]]: 0
sor: 6.0
wiz: 6.0
[[cleric]]: 6.0
[[druid]]: 0
[[ranger]]: 0
[[bard]]: 0
[[paladin]]: 0
deity: 0
