name: [[Nightmare]]
school: illusion
subschool: phantasm
descriptor: mind-affecting, evil
spell_level: [[bard]] 5, [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 5
casting_time: 10 minutes
components: V, S
costly_components: 0
range: unlimited
area: 0
effect: 0
targets: one living creature
duration: instantaneous
dismissible: 0
shapeable: 0
saving_throw: Will negates; see text
spell_resistence: yes
description: You send a hideous and unsettling phantasmal vision to a specific creature that you name or otherwise specifically designate. The nightmare prevents restful sleep and causes 1d10 points of damage. The nightmare leaves the subject fatigued and unable to regain arcane spells for the next 24 hours. The difficulty of the save depends on your knowledge the subject and the physical connection (if any) you have to that creature. Knowledge Will Save Modifier None* +10 Secondhand (you have heard of the subject) +5 Firsthand (you have met the subject) +0 Familiar (you know the subject well) -5 *You must have some sort of connection to a creature of which you have no knowledge. Connection Will Save Modifier Likeness or picture -2 Possession or garment -4 Body part, lock of hair, bit of nail, etc. -10 Dispel evil cast on the subject while you are casting the spell dispels the nightmare and causes you to be stunned for 10 minutes per caster level of the dispel evil. If the recipient is awake when the spell begins, you can choose to cease casting (ending the spell) or to enter a trance until the recipient goes to sleep, whereupon you become alert again and complete the casting. If you are disturbed during the trance, you must succeed on a Concentration check as if you were in the midst of casting a spell or the spell ends. If you choose to enter a trance, you are not aware of your surroundings or the activities around you while in the trance. You are defenseless, both physically and mentally, while in the trance. (You always fail Reflex and Will saving throws, for example.) Creatures who don't sleep (such as elves, but not half-elves) or dream are immune to this spell.
description_formated: <p>You send a hideous and unsettling phantasmal vision to a specific creature that you name or otherwise specifically designate.</p><p>The <i>nightmare</i> prevents restful sleep and causes 1d10 points of damage. The <i>nightmare</i> leaves the subject fatigued and unable to regain arcane spells for the next 24 hours.</p><p>The difficulty of the save depends on your knowledge the subject and the physical connection (if any) you have to that creature.</p><p> <table><tr><th>Knowledge</th><th>Will Save Modifier</th></tr><tr><td>None*</td><td>+10</td></tr><tr><td>Secondhand (you have heard of the subject)</td><td>+5</td></tr><tr><td>Firsthand (you have met the subject)</td><td>+0</td></tr><tr><td>Familiar (you know the subject well)</td><td>-5</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">*You must have some sort of connection to a creature of which you have no knowledge.</td></tr></table> </p><p> <table><tr><th>Connection</th><th>will Save Modifier</th></tr><tr><td>Likeness or picture</td><td>-2</td></tr><tr><td>Possession or garment</td><td>-4</td></tr><tr><td>Body part, lock of hair, bit of nail, etc.</td><td>-10</td></tr></table>  <i>Dispel evil</i> cast on the subject while you are casting the spell dispels the <i>nightmare</i> and causes you to be stunned for 10 minutes per caster level of the <i>dispel evil</i>.</p><p>If the recipient is awake when the spell begins, you can choose to cease casting (ending the spell) or to enter a trance until the recipient goes to sleep, whereupon you become alert again and complete the casting. If you are disturbed during the trance, you must succeed on a Concentration check as if you were in the midst of casting a spell or the spell ends.</p><p>If you choose to enter a trance, you are not aware of your surroundings or the activities around you while in the trance.</p><p>You are defenseless, both physically and mentally, while in the trance. (You always fail Reflex and Will saving throws, for example.) Creatures who don't sleep (such as elves, but not half-elves) or dream are immune to this spell.</p>
source: PFRPG Core
full_text: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Nightmare]]</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>School </b>illusion (phantasm) [mind-affecting, evil]; <b>Level </b>[[bard]] 5, [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 5</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>CASTING</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Casting Time </b>10 minutes</h5><h5><b>Components </b>V, S</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>EFFECT</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Range </b>unlimited</h5><h5><b>Targets </b>one living creature</h5><h5><b>Duration </b>instantaneous</h5><h5><b>Saving Throw </b>Will negates; see text; <b>Spell [[Resistance]] </b>yes</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>You send a hideous and unsettling phantasmal vision to a specific creature that you name or otherwise specifically designate.</p><p>The <i>nightmare</i> prevents restful sleep and causes 1d10 points of damage. The <i>nightmare</i> leaves the subject fatigued and unable to regain arcane spells for the next 24 hours.</p><p>The difficulty of the save depends on your knowledge the subject and the physical connection (if any) you have to that creature.</p><p> <table><tr><th>Knowledge</th><th>Will Save Modifier</th></tr><tr><td>None*</td><td>+10</td></tr><tr><td>Secondhand (you have heard of the subject)</td><td>+5</td></tr><tr><td>Firsthand (you have met the subject)</td><td>+0</td></tr><tr><td>Familiar (you know the subject well)</td><td>-5</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">*You must have some sort of connection to a creature of which you have no knowledge.</td></tr></table> </p><p> <table><tr><th>Connection</th><th>will Save Modifier</th></tr><tr><td>Likeness or picture</td><td>-2</td></tr><tr><td>Possession or garment</td><td>-4</td></tr><tr><td>Body part, lock of hair, bit of nail, etc.</td><td>-10</td></tr></table>  <i>Dispel evil</i> cast on the subject while you are casting the spell dispels the <i>nightmare</i> and causes you to be stunned for 10 minutes per caster level of the <i>dispel evil</i>.</p><p>If the recipient is awake when the spell begins, you can choose to cease casting (ending the spell) or to enter a trance until the recipient goes to sleep, whereupon you become alert again and complete the casting. If you are disturbed during the trance, you must succeed on a Concentration check as if you were in the midst of casting a spell or the spell ends.</p><p>If you choose to enter a trance, you are not aware of your surroundings or the activities around you while in the trance.</p><p>You are defenseless, both physically and mentally, while in the trance. (You always fail Reflex and Will saving throws, for example.) Creatures who don't sleep (such as elves, but not half-elves) or dream are immune to this spell.</p></h4></div>
verbal: 1
somatic: 1
material: 0
[[focus]]: 0
divine_[[focus]]: 0
sor: 5.0
wiz: 5.0
[[cleric]]: 0
[[druid]]: 0
[[ranger]]: 0
[[bard]]: 5.0
[[paladin]]: 0
deity: 0
