Name: [[Plaguebringer]]
Aura: strong necromancy
CL: 20
Slot: item
Price: 0
Weight: -
Description: A twisted blend of artifact, disease, and malign intellect, the [[Plaguebringer]] isn't so much found as contracted. Once it infects a host, [[Plaguebringer]] renders h im immune to the e ffects o f any lesser disease. Despite this immunity, the host can still spread disease; indeed, his body becomes an incubator for the countless ailments of the mortal [[world]]. When exposed to a disease, the host automatically fails any saving throw to avoid contracting it, but suffers no ill effects. The host indefinitely remains an asymptomatic carrier for any diseases caught. [[Plaguebringer]] also grants the following abilities: • The host receives a +2 profane bonus on attack rolls, caster level checks, and saving throws. • The host generates an aura of unlife in a 30-foot radius. All living creatures other than the host within this radius take 2d6 points of negative energy damage each round. [[Undead]] creatures gain fast healing 5 that stacks with any fast healing they already possess. This aura can be suppressed or resumed as a standard action. • As part of using an ability that requires him to expend mythic [[power]], the host can target a mythic creature within 30 feet. If that creature fails a DC 23 Fortitude save, it contracts a random disease (as contagion) and one use of its mythic [[power]] is stolen and granted to the host. If the host fails to steal mythic [[power]], he must expend double the usual amount of his own mythic [[power]] or the ability fails. • The host can use contagion heightened to 8th level (DC 23) at will. • The host can use em[[power]]ed vampiric touch three times per day. • As a swift action, the host can expend one use of mythic [[power]] to gain the effects of death ward, divine [[power]], and spell resistance. These effects last 1 round per tier he possesses and can't be dispelled. • Once per day, the host can expend two uses of mythic [[power]] to summon a nightwingB2 to do his bidding for 1 hour. If the nightwing is slain, a new one can't be summoned for 1 week. [[Plaguebringer]] is intelligent, with an Intelligence score of 15, a Wisdom of 10, and a Charisma of 20. It has a neutral evil alignment, communicates by empathy, and has an Ego of 30. It exists only to spread disease and cause suffering. It protects and aids hosts that please it. If infecting a host who resists these goals, it withholds its abilities and attempts to control the host. [[Plaguebringer]] can take a single standard or swift action on its host's turn to activate any of its [[power]]s that don't require a touch attack. It has five uses of mythic [[power]] available to expend each day. It can use its host's own mythic [[power]] by becoming dominant (Pathfinder RPG Core Rulebook 535). When infecting a host, it has full access to its host's senses, along with darkvision and blindsense with a range of 120 feet. When not in a host, [[Plaguebringer]] has only limited awareness, with hearing and blindsense usable to a range of 30 feet and no vision. When not infecting a host, [[Plaguebringer]] is undetectable by normal vision due to its microscopic size, though detect evil reveals its presence. It can fly at a speed of 30 feet, and can infect a new host by entering its body. If the target fails a DC 30 Fortitude save, [[Plaguebringer]] infects it and the creature gains access to the artifact's [[power]]s. If the target succeeds, [[Plaguebringer]] can't attempt to infect it again for 1 month. [[Plaguebringer]] can leave a host by becoming dominant and choosing to leave. Immediately after it leaves, the host is affected by multiple contagion effects (DC 30), one for each of the diseases listed in the spell.
Requirements: 0
Cost: 0
Group: Artifact
Source: Mythic Adventures
AL: 0
Int: 0
Wis: 0
Cha: 0
Ego: 0
Communication: 0
Senses: 0
Powers: 0
MagicItems: 0
FullText: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Plaguebringer]] (Major Artifact)</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>Aura </b>strong necromancy; <b>CL </b>20th</h5><h5><b>Slot </b>none; <b>Weight </b>-</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>A twisted blend of artifact, disease, and malign intellect, the <i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> isn't so much found as contracted. Once it infects a host, <i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> renders h im immune to the e ffects o f any lesser disease. Despite this immunity, the host can still spread disease; indeed, his body becomes an incubator for the countless ailments of the mortal [[world]]. When exposed to a disease, the host automatically fails any saving throw to avoid contracting it, but suffers no ill effects. The host indefinitely remains an asymptomatic carrier for any diseases caught. </p><p><i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> also grants the following abilities: </p><p><ul><li> The host receives a +2 profane bonus on attack rolls, caster level checks, and saving throws. </p><p><li> The host generates an aura of unlife in a 30-foot radius. All living creatures other than the host within this radius take 2d6 points of negative energy damage each round. [[Undead]] creatures gain fast healing 5 that stacks with any fast healing they already possess. This aura can be suppressed or resumed as a standard action. </p><p><li> As part of using an ability that requires him to expend mythic [[power]], the host can target a mythic creature within 30 feet. If that creature fails a DC 23 Fortitude save, it contracts a random disease (as <i>contagion</i>) and one use of its mythic [[power]] is stolen and granted to the host. If the host fails to steal mythic [[power]], he must expend double the usual amount of his own mythic [[power]] or the ability fails. </p><p><li> The host can use <i>contagion</i> heightened to 8th level (DC 23) at will. </p><p><li> The host can use em[[power]]ed <i>vampiric touch</i> three times per day. </p><p><li> As a swift action, the host can expend one use of mythic [[power]] to gain the effects of <i>death ward</i>, <i>divine [[power]]</i>, and <i>spell resistance</i>. These effects last 1 round per tier he possesses and can't be dispelled. </p><p><li> Once per day, the host can expend two uses of mythic [[power]] to summon a nightwingB2 to do his bidding for 1 hour. If the nightwing is slain, a new one can't be summoned for 1 week. </ul></p><p><i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> is intelligent, with an Intelligence score of 15, a Wisdom of 10, and a Charisma of 20. It has a neutral evil alignment, communicates by empathy, and has an Ego of 30. It exists only to spread disease and cause suffering. It protects and aids hosts that please it. If infecting a host who resists these goals, it withholds its abilities and attempts to control the host. <i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> can take a single standard or swift action on its host's turn to activate any of its [[power]]s that don't require a touch attack. It has five uses of mythic [[power]] available to expend each day. It can use its host's own mythic [[power]] by becoming dominant (<i>Pathfinder RPG Core Rulebook</i> 535). </p><p>When infecting a host, it has full access to its host's senses, along with darkvision and blindsense with a range of 120 feet. When not in a host, <i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> has only limited awareness, with hearing and blindsense usable to a range of 30 feet and no vision. When not infecting a host, <i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> is undetectable by normal vision due to its microscopic size, though <i>detect evil</i> reveals its presence. It can fly at a speed of 30 feet, and can infect a new host by entering its body. If the target fails a DC 30 Fortitude save, <i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> infects it and the creature gains access to the artifact's [[power]]s. If the target succeeds, <i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> can't attempt to infect it again for 1 month. </p><p><i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> can leave a host by becoming dominant and choosing to leave. Immediately after it leaves, the host is affected by multiple <i>contagion</i> effects (DC 30), one for each of the diseases listed in the spell.</p></h4></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESTRUCTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>To be destroyed, <i>[[Plaguebringer]]</i> must first be forced or tricked into the body of an angel. The angel must then willingly sacrifice itself by dying at the heart of a star.</p></h4></div>
[[Destruction]]: To be destroyed, [[Plaguebringer]] must first be forced or tricked into the body of an angel. The angel must then willingly sacrifice itself by dying at the heart of a star.
MinorArtifactFlag: 0
MajorArtifactFlag: 1
Abjuration: 0
Conjuration: 0
[[Divination]]: 0
Enchantment: 0
Evocation: 0
Necromancy: 1
Transmutation: 0
AuraStrength: strong
WeightValue: 0.0
PriceValue: 0
CostValue: 0
Languages: 0
BaseItem: 0
LinkText: 0
id: 2936
Mythic: 1
LegendaryWeapon: 0
Illusion: 0
Universal: 0
effects: 0
