name: [[Prismatic Wall]]
school: abjuration
subschool: 0
descriptor: 0
spell_level: [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 8
casting_time: 1 standard action
components: V, S
costly_components: 0
range: close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
area: 0
effect: wall 4 ft./level wide, 2 ft./level high
targets: 0
duration: 10 min./level
dismissible: 1
shapeable: 0
saving_throw: see text
spell_resistence: see text
description: Prismatic wall creates a vertical, opaque wall-a shimmering, multicolored plane of light that protects you from all forms of attack. The wall flashes with seven colors, each of which has a distinct [[power]] and purpose. The wall is immobile, and you can pass through and remain near the wall without harm. Any other creature with less than 8 HD that is within 20 feet of the wall is blinded by the colors for 2d4 rounds if it looks at the wall. The wall's maximum proportions are 4 feet wide per caster level and 2 feet high per caster level. A prismatic wall spell cast to materialize in a space occupied by a creature is disrupted, and the spell is wasted. Each color in the wall has a special effect. The accompanying table shows the seven colors of the wall, the order in which they appear, their effects on creatures trying to attack you or pass through the wall, and the magic needed to negate each color. The wall can be destroyed, color by color, in consecutive order, by casting the specified spells on the wall; however, the first color must be brought down before the second can be affected, and so on. A rod of cancellation or a mage's disjunction spell destroys a prismatic wall, but an antimagic field fails to penetrate it. Dispel magic and greater dispel magic can only be used on the wall once all the other colors have been destroyed. Spell resistance is effective against a prismatic wall, but the caster level check must be repeated for each color present. Prismatic wall can be made permanent with a permanency spell. Order C olor Effect of Color N egated by 1st Red Stops nonmagical ranged weapons. Cone of cold Deals 20 points of fire damage (Reflex half ). 2nd Orange Stops magical ranged weapons. Gust of wind Deals 40 points of acid damage (Reflex half ). 3rd Yellow Stops poisons, gases, and petrification. [[Disintegrate]] Deals 80 points of electricity damage (Reflex half ). 4th Green Stops breath weapons. [[Passwall]] [[Poison]] (frequency: 1/rd. for 6 rd.; init. effect: death, sec. effect: 1 Con/rd.; cure 2 consecutive Fort saves). 5th Blue Stops divination and mental attacks. Magic missile Turned to stone (Fortitude negates). 6th Indigo Stops all spells. [[Daylight]] Will save or become insane (as insanity spell). 7th Violet Energy field destroys all objects and effects.* Dispel magic or Creatures sent to another plane (Will negates). greater dispel magic * The violet effect makes the special effects of the other six colors redundant, but these six effects are included here because certain magic items can create prismatic effects one color at a time, and spell resistance might render some colors ineffective (see above).
description_formated: <p><i>Prismatic wall</i> creates a vertical, opaque wall-a shimmering, multicolored plane of light that protects you from all forms of attack. The wall flashes with seven colors, each of which has a distinct [[power]] and purpose. The wall is immobile, and you can pass through and remain near the wall without harm. Any other creature with less than 8 HD that is within 20 feet of the wall is blinded by the colors for 2d4 rounds if it looks at the wall.</p><p>The wall's maximum proportions are 4 feet wide per caster level and 2 feet high per caster level. A <i>prismatic wall</i> spell cast to materialize in a space occupied by a creature is disrupted, and the spell is wasted.</p><p>Each color in the wall has a special effect. The accompanying table shows the seven colors of the wall, the order in which they appear, their effects on creatures trying to attack you or pass through the wall, and the magic needed to negate each color.</p><p>The wall can be destroyed, color by color, in consecutive order, by casting the specified spells on the wall; however, the first color must be brought down before the second can be affected, and so on. A <i>rod of cancellation</i> or a mage's disjunction spell destroys a <i>prismatic wall</i>, but an <i>antimagic field</i> fails to penetrate it. <i>Dispel magic</i> and <i>greater dispel magic</i> can only be used on the wall once all the other colors have been destroyed. Spell resistance is effective against a <i>prismatic wall</i>, but the caster level check must be repeated for each color present.</p><p><i>Prismatic wall</i> can be made permanent with a <i>permanency</i> spell.</p><p> <table><tr><th>Order</th><th>Color</th><th>Effect of Color</th><th>Negated by</th></tr><tr><td>1st</td><td>Red</td><td>Stops nonmagical ranged weapons. Deals 20 points of fire damage (Reflex half ).</td><td><i>Cone of cold</i></td></tr><tr><td>2nd</td><td>Orange</td><td>Stops magical ranged weapons. Deals 40 points of acid damage (Reflex half).</td><td><i>Gust of wind</i></td></tr><tr><td>3rd</td><td>Yellow</td><td>Stops poisons, gases, and petrification. Deals 80 points of electricity damage (Reflex half).</td><td><i>[[Disintegrate]]</i></td></tr><tr><td>4th</td><td>Green</td><td>Stops breath weapons. [[Poison]] (frequency: 1/rd. for 6 rd.; init. effect: death, sec. effect: 1 Con/rd.; cure 2 consecutive Fort saves).</td><td><i>[[Passwall]]</i></td></tr><tr><td>5th</td><td>Blue</td><td>Stops divination and mental attacks. Turned to stone (Fortitude negates).</td><td><i>Magic missile</i></td></tr><tr><td>6th</td><td>Indigo</td><td>Stops all spells. Will save or become insane (as insanity spell).</td><td><i>[[Daylight]]</i></td></tr><tr><td>7th</td><td>Violet</td><td>Energy field destroys all objects and effects.* Creatures sent to another plane (Will negates).</td><td><i>Dispel magic</i> or <i>greater dispel magic</i></td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">*The violet effect makes the special effects of the other six colors redundant, but these six effects are included here because certain magic items can create prismatic effects one color at a time, and spell resistance might render some colors ineffective (see above).</td></tr></table> </p>
source: PFRPG Core
full_text: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Prismatic Wall]]</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>School </b>abjuration; <b>Level </b>[[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 8</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>CASTING</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Casting Time </b>1 standard action</h5><h5><b>Components </b>V, S</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>EFFECT</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Range </b>close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)</h5><h5><b>Effect </b>wall 4 ft./level wide, 2 ft./level high</h5><h5><b>Duration </b>10 min./level (D)</h5><h5><b>Saving Throw </b>see text; <b>Spell [[Resistance]] </b>see text</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p><i>Prismatic wall</i> creates a vertical, opaque wall-a shimmering, multicolored plane of light that protects you from all forms of attack. The wall flashes with seven colors, each of which has a distinct [[power]] and purpose. The wall is immobile, and you can pass through and remain near the wall without harm. Any other creature with less than 8 HD that is within 20 feet of the wall is blinded by the colors for 2d4 rounds if it looks at the wall.</p><p>The wall's maximum proportions are 4 feet wide per caster level and 2 feet high per caster level. A <i>prismatic wall</i> spell cast to materialize in a space occupied by a creature is disrupted, and the spell is wasted.</p><p>Each color in the wall has a special effect. The accompanying table shows the seven colors of the wall, the order in which they appear, their effects on creatures trying to attack you or pass through the wall, and the magic needed to negate each color.</p><p>The wall can be destroyed, color by color, in consecutive order, by casting the specified spells on the wall; however, the first color must be brought down before the second can be affected, and so on. A <i>rod of cancellation</i> or a mage's disjunction spell destroys a <i>prismatic wall</i>, but an <i>antimagic field</i> fails to penetrate it. <i>Dispel magic</i> and <i>greater dispel magic</i> can only be used on the wall once all the other colors have been destroyed. Spell resistance is effective against a <i>prismatic wall</i>, but the caster level check must be repeated for each color present.</p><p><i>Prismatic wall</i> can be made permanent with a <i>permanency</i> spell.</p><p> <table><tr><th>Order</th><th>Color</th><th>Effect of Color</th><th>Negated by</th></tr><tr><td>1st</td><td>Red</td><td>Stops nonmagical ranged weapons. Deals 20 points of fire damage (Reflex half ).</td><td><i>Cone of cold</i></td></tr><tr><td>2nd</td><td>Orange</td><td>Stops magical ranged weapons. Deals 40 points of acid damage (Reflex half).</td><td><i>Gust of wind</i></td></tr><tr><td>3rd</td><td>Yellow</td><td>Stops poisons, gases, and petrification. Deals 80 points of electricity damage (Reflex half).</td><td><i>[[Disintegrate]]</i></td></tr><tr><td>4th</td><td>Green</td><td>Stops breath weapons. [[Poison]] (frequency: 1/rd. for 6 rd.; init. effect: death, sec. effect: 1 Con/rd.; cure 2 consecutive Fort saves).</td><td><i>[[Passwall]]</i></td></tr><tr><td>5th</td><td>Blue</td><td>Stops divination and mental attacks. Turned to stone (Fortitude negates).</td><td><i>Magic missile</i></td></tr><tr><td>6th</td><td>Indigo</td><td>Stops all spells. Will save or become insane (as insanity spell).</td><td><i>[[Daylight]]</i></td></tr><tr><td>7th</td><td>Violet</td><td>Energy field destroys all objects and effects.* Creatures sent to another plane (Will negates).</td><td><i>Dispel magic</i> or <i>greater dispel magic</i></td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">*The violet effect makes the special effects of the other six colors redundant, but these six effects are included here because certain magic items can create prismatic effects one color at a time, and spell resistance might render some colors ineffective (see above).</td></tr></table> </p></h4></div>
verbal: 1
somatic: 1
material: 0
[[focus]]: 0
divine_[[focus]]: 0
sor: 8.0
wiz: 8.0
[[cleric]]: 0
[[druid]]: 0
[[ranger]]: 0
[[bard]]: 0
[[paladin]]: 0
deity: 0
