Name: [[Rod Of Flame Extinguishing]]
Aura: strong transmutation
CL: 12
Slot: item
Price: 15000
Weight: 5 lbs.
Description: This rod can extinguish [[Medium]] or smaller nonmagical fires with simply a touch (a standard action). For the rod to be effective against other sorts of fires, the wielder must expend 1 or more of the rod's charges. Extinguishing a Large or larger nonmagical fire or a magic fire of size [[Medium]] or smaller (such as that of a flaming weapon or a burning hands spell), expends 1 charge. Continual magic flames, such as those generated by a weapon or a fire creature, are suppressed for 6 rounds and flare up again after that time. To extinguish an instantaneous fire spell, the rod must be within the area of the effect and the wielder must have used a ready action, effectively countering the entire spell. When applied to Large or larger magic fires, such as those caused by fireball, flame strike, or wall of fire, extinguishing the flames expends 2 charges from the rod. If a rod of flame extinguishing is touched to a creature with the fire subtype by making a successful melee touch attack, the rod deals 6d6 points of damage to the creature. This use requires 3 charges. A rod of flame extinguishing has 10 charges when found. Spent charges are renewed every day, so that a wielder can expend up to 10 charges in any 24-hour period.
Requirements: [[Craft Rod]], pyrotechnics
Cost: 7,500 gp
Group: Rod
Source: Ultimate Equipment
AL: 0
Int: 0
Wis: 0
Cha: 0
Ego: 0
Communication: 0
Senses: 0
Powers: 0
MagicItems: 0
FullText: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Rod Of Flame Extinguishing]]</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>Aura </b>strong transmutation; <b>CL </b>12th</h5><h5><b>Slot </b>none; <b>Price </b>15,000; <b>Weight </b>5 lbs.</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>This rod can extinguish [[Medium]] or smaller nonmagical fires with simply a touch (a standard action). For the rod to be effective against other sorts of fires, the wielder must expend 1 or more of the rod's charges. </p><p>Extinguishing a Large or larger nonmagical fire or a magic fire of size [[Medium]] or smaller (such as that of a flaming weapon or a <i>burning hands</i> spell), expends 1 charge. Continual magic flames, such as those generated by a weapon or a fire creature, are suppressed for 6 rounds and flare up again after that time. To extinguish an instantaneous fire spell, the rod must be within the area of the effect and the wielder must have used a ready action, effectively countering the entire spell. </p><p>When applied to Large or larger magic fires, such as those caused by <i>fireball</i>, <i>flame strike</i>, or <i>wall of fire</i>, extinguishing the flames expends 2 charges from the rod. </p><p>If a <i>rod of flame extinguishing</i> is touched to a creature with the fire subtype by making a successful melee touch attack, the rod deals 6d6 points of damage to the creature. This use requires 3 charges. </p><p>A <i>rod of flame extinguishing</i> has 10 charges when found. Spent charges are renewed every day, so that a wielder can expend up to 10 charges in any 24-hour period.</p></h4></div><hr/><div><h5><b>CONSTRUCTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Requirements </b>[[Craft Rod]], <i>pyrotechnics</i>; <b>Cost </b>7,500 gp</h5></div>
[[Destruction]]: 0
MinorArtifactFlag: 0
MajorArtifactFlag: 0
Abjuration: 0
Conjuration: 0
[[Divination]]: 0
Enchantment: 0
Evocation: 0
Necromancy: 0
Transmutation: 1
AuraStrength: strong
WeightValue: 5.0
PriceValue: 15000
CostValue: 7500
Languages: 0
BaseItem: 0
LinkText: 0
id: 1491
Mythic: 0
LegendaryWeapon: 0
Illusion: 0
Universal: 0
effects: 0
