name: [[Sacrifice]]
school: enchantment
subschool: charm
descriptor: mind-affecting
spell_level: [[cleric]] 4, [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 4
casting_time: 1 minute
components: V, S, M (see text)
costly_components: 0
range: close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
area: 0
effect: 0
targets: one summoned outsider or elemental (see text)
duration: instantaneous, 1 hour, or 1 day (see text)
dismissible: 0
shapeable: 0
saving_throw: none
spell_resistence: no
description: You make a sacrifice to aid in conjuring and commanding a creature called with planar ally, planar binding, or a similar spell. A sacrifice can be used in a variety of ways: Bargain: Making a sacrifice directly to the conjured being grants you a bonus on opposed Charisma checks made to compel the creature into service for the next hour.  Enticement: Making a sacrifice the round before conjuring increases the DC of the Will save an outsider must make to resist being summoned.  Payment: Making a sacrifice directly to the conjured being allows you to pay for one service from the creature in commodities other than gold.  Reinforcement: Making a sacrifice the round before magic circle and preparing a summoning diagram increases the [[power]] of its warding magic, increasing the DC of all Charisma checks the creature might make to escape. This lasts 1 day.  Multiple sacrifices can be made to affect a single conjuring, but the bonuses provided by this spell do not stack. Therefore, while you can make sacrifices to aid in summoning and bargaining with a creature, you cannot make multiple sacrifices (even of varying types) to enhance the same effect of a particular conjuration.  A sacrifice may consist of any kind of commodity the target creature favors, including treasures, living creatures, or more ephemeral offerings. While this spell is not fundamentally evil, good-aligned creatures prove more selective in what offerings they accept, typically scoffing at blood sacrifices.  Many sacrifices are fundamentally evil acts, such as murdering a pious innocent to summon a fiend. Any creature might reject certain types of sacrifices, thus denying you the benefits of this spell, as the offering must appeal to the target-few outsiders would care for 2,000 gp worth of parchment, while 2,000 gp of diamonds would be widely coveted. The GM determines what sacrifices creatures find appealing.  The [[Sacrifice]] Effects table on the previous page lists a number of likely offerings, along with the bonus such gifts effect and the offering's equivalent value in gold pieces for the purposes of planar ally. Several of these sacrifices involve the loss of ability scores, levels, lives, or even changes in alignment.  Any change wrought by such sacrifices (loss of ability score or level, or change in alignment) cannot be recovered, cured, or undone by any spell or effect short of miracle or wish. The same is true of creatures killed as a sacrifice; such creatures cannot be resurrected by any magic less [[power]]ful than these spells.  Any object sacrificed with this spell is effectively destroyed or removed to an extraplanar holding of the summoned creature's choice. The bonuses and values noted on the sacrifices table are guidelines for offerings; certain types of treasures or lives might prove especially valuable to specific creatures, with extraordinary sacrifices (like a potent artifact or the life of a high-level [[paladin]]) garnering increased bonuses.  You cannot make greater sacrifices than those noted on the table to gain increased bonuses or gold values. For example, you could not gain two permanent negative levels to gain a +16 bonus nor gain increased benefit from slaying 20 HD worth of creatures to pay for a 10 HD creature's service.
description_formated: <p>You make a sacrifice to aid in conjuring and commanding a creature called with <i>planar ally</i>, <i>planar binding</i>, or a similar spell. A sacrifice can be used in a variety of ways: <i>Bargain:</i> Making a sacrifice directly to the conjured being grants you a bonus on opposed Charisma checks made to compel the creature into service for the next hour.</p><p><i>Enticement:</i> Making a sacrifice the round before conjuring increases the DC of the Will save an outsider must make to resist being summoned.</p><p><i>Payment:</i> Making a sacrifice directly to the conjured being allows you to pay for one service from the creature in commodities other than gold.</p><p><i>Reinforcement:</i> Making a sacrifice the round before <i>magic circle</i> and preparing a summoning diagram increases the [[power]] of its warding magic, increasing the DC of all Charisma checks the creature might make to escape. This lasts 1 day.</p><p>Multiple sacrifices can be made to affect a single conjuring, but the bonuses provided by this spell do not stack. Therefore, while you can make sacrifices to aid in summoning and bargaining with a creature, you cannot make multiple sacrifices (even of varying types) to enhance the same effect of a particular conjuration.</p><p>A sacrifice may consist of any kind of commodity the target creature favors, including treasures, living creatures, or more ephemeral offerings. While this spell is not fundamentally evil, good-aligned creatures prove more selective in what offerings they accept, typically scoffing at blood sacrifices.</p><p>Many sacrifices are fundamentally evil acts, such as murdering a pious innocent to summon a fiend. Any creature might reject certain types of sacrifices, thus denying you the benefits of this spell, as the offering must appeal to the target-few outsiders would care for 2,000 gp worth of parchment, while 2,000 gp of diamonds would be widely coveted. The GM determines what sacrifices creatures find appealing.</p><p>The [[Sacrifice]] Effects table on the previous page lists a number of likely offerings, along with the bonus such gifts effect and the offering's equivalent value in gold pieces for the purposes of <i>planar ally</i>. Several of these sacrifices involve the loss of ability scores, levels, lives, or even changes in alignment.</p><p>Any change wrought by such sacrifices (loss of ability score or level, or change in alignment) cannot be recovered, cured, or undone by any spell or effect short of <i>miracle</i> or <i>wish.</i> The same is true of creatures killed as a sacrifice; such creatures cannot be resurrected by any magic less [[power]]ful than these spells.</p><p>Any object sacrificed with this spell is effectively destroyed or removed to an extraplanar holding of the summoned creature's choice. The bonuses and values noted on the sacrifices table are guidelines for offerings; certain types of treasures or lives might prove especially valuable to specific creatures, with extraordinary sacrifices (like a potent artifact or the life of a high-level [[paladin]]) garnering increased bonuses.</p><p>You cannot make greater sacrifices than those noted on the table to gain increased bonuses or gold values. For example, you could not gain two permanent negative levels to gain a +16 bonus nor gain increased benefit from slaying 20 HD worth of creatures to pay for a 10 HD creature's service.</p>
source: Book of the Dammed V1
full_text: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Sacrifice]]</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>School </b>enchantment (charm) [mind-affecting]; <b>Level </b>[[cleric]] 4, [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 4</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>CASTING</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Casting Time </b>1 minute</h5><h5><b>Components </b>V, S, M (see text)</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>EFFECT</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Range </b>close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)</h5><h5><b>Targets </b>one summoned outsider or elemental (see text)</h5><h5><b>Duration </b>instantaneous, 1 hour, or 1 day (see text)</h5><h5><b>Saving Throw </b>none; <b>Spell [[Resistance]] </b>no</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>You make a sacrifice to aid in conjuring and commanding a creature called with <i>planar ally</i>, <i>planar binding</i>, or a similar spell. A sacrifice can be used in a variety of ways: <i>Bargain:</i> Making a sacrifice directly to the conjured being grants you a bonus on opposed Charisma checks made to compel the creature into service for the next hour.</p><p><i>Enticement:</i> Making a sacrifice the round before conjuring increases the DC of the Will save an outsider must make to resist being summoned.</p><p><i>Payment:</i> Making a sacrifice directly to the conjured being allows you to pay for one service from the creature in commodities other than gold.</p><p><i>Reinforcement:</i> Making a sacrifice the round before <i>magic circle</i> and preparing a summoning diagram increases the [[power]] of its warding magic, increasing the DC of all Charisma checks the creature might make to escape. This lasts 1 day.</p><p>Multiple sacrifices can be made to affect a single conjuring, but the bonuses provided by this spell do not stack. Therefore, while you can make sacrifices to aid in summoning and bargaining with a creature, you cannot make multiple sacrifices (even of varying types) to enhance the same effect of a particular conjuration.</p><p>A sacrifice may consist of any kind of commodity the target creature favors, including treasures, living creatures, or more ephemeral offerings. While this spell is not fundamentally evil, good-aligned creatures prove more selective in what offerings they accept, typically scoffing at blood sacrifices.</p><p>Many sacrifices are fundamentally evil acts, such as murdering a pious innocent to summon a fiend. Any creature might reject certain types of sacrifices, thus denying you the benefits of this spell, as the offering must appeal to the target-few outsiders would care for 2,000 gp worth of parchment, while 2,000 gp of diamonds would be widely coveted. The GM determines what sacrifices creatures find appealing.</p><p>The [[Sacrifice]] Effects table on the previous page lists a number of likely offerings, along with the bonus such gifts effect and the offering's equivalent value in gold pieces for the purposes of <i>planar ally</i>. Several of these sacrifices involve the loss of ability scores, levels, lives, or even changes in alignment.</p><p>Any change wrought by such sacrifices (loss of ability score or level, or change in alignment) cannot be recovered, cured, or undone by any spell or effect short of <i>miracle</i> or <i>wish.</i> The same is true of creatures killed as a sacrifice; such creatures cannot be resurrected by any magic less [[power]]ful than these spells.</p><p>Any object sacrificed with this spell is effectively destroyed or removed to an extraplanar holding of the summoned creature's choice. The bonuses and values noted on the sacrifices table are guidelines for offerings; certain types of treasures or lives might prove especially valuable to specific creatures, with extraordinary sacrifices (like a potent artifact or the life of a high-level [[paladin]]) garnering increased bonuses.</p><p>You cannot make greater sacrifices than those noted on the table to gain increased bonuses or gold values. For example, you could not gain two permanent negative levels to gain a +16 bonus nor gain increased benefit from slaying 20 HD worth of creatures to pay for a 10 HD creature's service.</p></h4></div>
verbal: 1
somatic: 1
material: 1
[[focus]]: 0
divine_[[focus]]: 0
sor: 4.0
wiz: 4.0
[[cleric]]: 4.0
[[druid]]: 0
[[ranger]]: 0
[[bard]]: 0
[[paladin]]: 0
deity: 0
