Name: [[[[Shield]] of Aroden]]
Aura: strong abjuration
CL: 20
Slot: item
Price: 0
Weight: 10 lbs.
Description: During the battle between the Whispering Tyrant and General Arnisant, the lich unleashed terrible magic upon the outnumbered mortal army. Despite the lich's [[power]], Arnisant was protected from the onslaught by his magical shield, an artifact known as the [[[[Shield]] of Aroden]]. When the two finally faced off, the Whispering Tyrant attempted to use a wish to summon Arnisant's heart to his waiting claws. The [[[[Shield]] of Aroden]] prevented this dire fate and instead shattered into a dozen fragments, one of which appeared in Tar-Baphon's hand, fusing with the undead flesh and burning the lich with holy fire. When the flames subsided, the crippled lich was soon locked away in the dungeons beneath Gallowspire, there to rot for all eternity. The [[[[Shield]] of Aroden]] lost all of its [[power]]. Its broken remnants have been passed down from one watcher-lord to another without fail. Some say that should the Whispering Tyrant ever become free, the missing piece of the shield would have to be recovered from his bony claw for the fiend to truly be defeated. This item is normally kept on display in the city of Vigil in [[Lastwall]], though at first glance it is just a collection of wooden shards on a large black silk pillow. If assembled, these 12 shards would form a round shield with a piece in the center missing. The shield's face is carved to look like Aroden's holy symbol-a winged eye in a circle. Originally known as the [[[[Shield]] of Aroden]], most today call it by its new name-the [[Shatter]]ed [[Shield]] of Arnisant. If restored to its former glory (a task that could in and of itself be a campaign), the [[Shatter]]ed [[Shield]] becomes the [[[[Shield]] of Aroden]] once again-a +5 light fortification spell resistance (17) heavy wooden shield. Once per day, you can invoke a form of fire shield that protects against cold attacks and damages opponents with fire and holy damage like a flame strike (it is likely that this ability is what burned the lich in his final battle). Once per round as an immediate action, if an adjacent ally is hit by a ranged or melee attack, you can use the shield to redirect the attack to yourself, suffering all effects from that attack as if you were its intended target. All allies within 100 feet of you gain the effect of bless and prayer. As with a status spell, all allies within 100 feet know your relative position and condition. The [[[[Shield]] of Aroden]] bestows two negative levels on any chaotic creature that attempts to wield it. The negative levels remain as long as the shield is held or carried. These negative levels never result in actual level loss, but they cannot be overcome in any way (including restoration spells) while the creature holds or carries the shield.
Requirements: 0
Cost: 0
Group: Artifact
Source: Inner Sea World Guide
AL: 0
Int: 0
Wis: 0
Cha: 0
Ego: 0
Communication: 0
Senses: 0
Powers: 0
MagicItems: 0
FullText: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[[[Shield]] of Aroden]] (Major Artifact)</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>Aura </b>strong abjuration; <b>CL </b>20th</h5><h5><b>Slot </b>none; <b>Weight </b>10 lbs.</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>During the battle between the Whispering Tyrant and General Arnisant, the lich unleashed terrible magic upon the outnumbered mortal army. Despite the lich's [[power]], Arnisant was protected from the onslaught by his magical shield, an artifact known as the <i>[[[[Shield]] of Aroden]]</i>. When the two finally faced off, the Whispering Tyrant attempted to use a <i>wish</i> to summon Arnisant's heart to his waiting claws. The <i>[[[[Shield]] of Aroden]]</i> prevented this dire fate and instead shattered into a dozen fragments, one of which appeared in Tar-Baphon's hand, fusing with the undead flesh and burning the lich with holy fire. When the flames subsided, the crippled lich was soon locked away in the dungeons beneath Gallowspire, there to rot for all eternity. The <i>[[[[Shield]] of Aroden]]</i> lost all of its [[power]]. Its broken remnants have been passed down from one watcher-lord to another without fail. Some say that should the Whispering Tyrant ever become free, the missing piece of the shield would have to be recovered from his bony claw for the fiend to truly be defeated.</p><p>This item is normally kept on display in the city of Vigil in [[Lastwall]], though at first glance it is just a collection of wooden shards on a large black silk pillow.</p><p>If assembled, these 12 shards would form a round shield with a piece in the center missing. The shield's face is carved to look like Aroden's holy symbol-a winged eye in a circle.</p><p>Originally known as the <i>[[[[Shield]] of Aroden]]</i>, most today call it by its new name-the <i><i>[[Shatter]]ed [[Shield]]</i> of Arnisant</i>. If restored to its former glory (a task that could in and of itself be a campaign), the <i>[[Shatter]]ed [[Shield]]</i> becomes the <i>[[[[Shield]] of Aroden]]</i> once again-a <i>+5 light fortification spell resistance (17) heavy wooden shield</i>. Once per day, you can invoke a form of <i>fire shield</i> that protects against cold attacks and damages opponents with fire and holy damage like a <i>flame strike</i> (it is likely that this ability is what burned the lich in his final battle). Once per round as an immediate action, if an adjacent ally is hit by a ranged or melee attack, you can use the shield to redirect the attack to yourself, suffering all effects from that attack as if you were its intended target. All allies within 100 feet of you gain the effect of <i>bless</i> and <i>prayer</i>.</p><p>As with a <i>status</i> spell, all allies within 100 feet know your relative position and condition. The <i>[[[[Shield]] of Aroden]]</i> bestows two negative levels on any chaotic creature that attempts to wield it. The negative levels remain as long as the shield is held or carried. These negative levels never result in actual level loss, but they cannot be overcome in any way (including <i>restoration</i> spells) while the creature holds or carries the shield.</p></h4></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESTRUCTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>The <i>[[[[Shield]] of Aroden]]</i> has the special purpose of protecting its bearer from death no matter the consequences to itself. Any attack that would kill you (not merely make you unconscious or dying) triggers this ability, redirecting the attack fully upon the shield and leaving you unharmed, even if the attack normally only works on living creatures. For example, if you failed a saving throw against <i>flesh to stone</i>, the shield would turn to stone instead of you, whereas if you failed your save against <i>horrid wilting</i> or <i>implosion</i>, the shield would turn to dry splinters or crushed pulp. Depending on the nature of the attack, it may be impossible to reassemble or restore the shield to full functionality again.</p><p>Any attempt to repair the shield requires all of its pieces, and barring the direct intercession of a deity, it is likely that any repairs would be imperfect. Anytime the bearer fails a saving throw by rolling a 1, the shield must attempt the same saving throw (regardless whether the shield would normally be the item to suffer the effects of failure), and if it fails by rolling 1, it shatters again, perhaps with disastrous effects.</p><p>Despite their lack of active magic, the individual pieces themselves cannot be damaged by mortal means.</p></h4></div>
[[Destruction]]: The [[[[Shield]] of Aroden]] has the special purpose of protecting its bearer from death no matter the consequences to itself. Any attack that would kill you (not merely make you unconscious or dying) triggers this ability, redirecting the attack fully upon the shield and leaving you unharmed, even if the attack normally only works on living creatures. For example, if you failed a saving throw against flesh to stone, the shield would turn to stone instead of you, whereas if you failed your save against horrid wilting or implosion, the shield would turn to dry splinters or crushed pulp. Depending on the nature of the attack, it may be impossible to reassemble or restore the shield to full functionality again. Any attempt to repair the shield requires all of its pieces, and barring the direct intercession of a deity, it is likely that any repairs would be imperfect. Anytime the bearer fails a saving throw by rolling a 1, the shield must attempt the same saving throw (regardless whether the shield would normally be the item to suffer the effects of failure), and if it fails by rolling 1, it shatters again, perhaps with disastrous effects. Despite their lack of active magic, the individual pieces themselves cannot be damaged by mortal means.
MinorArtifactFlag: 0
MajorArtifactFlag: 1
Abjuration: 1
Conjuration: 0
[[Divination]]: 0
Enchantment: 0
Evocation: 0
Necromancy: 0
Transmutation: 0
AuraStrength: strong
WeightValue: 10.0
PriceValue: 0
CostValue: 0
Languages: 0
BaseItem: 0
LinkText: 0
id: 916
Mythic: 0
LegendaryWeapon: 0
Illusion: 0
Universal: 0
effects: 0
