Name: [[Sihedron]]
Aura: overwhelming (all schools)
CL: 25
Slot: item
Price: 0
Weight: 7 lbs.
Description: The [[Sihedron]] is a seven-pointed star that symbolizes the [[power]] of Thassilonian magic. Xin created the [[Sihedron]] as more than just a symbol of his [[power]] over the schools of magic he'd defined for his nation, though. It was initially meant to be a badge of his [[power]] over all of Thassilon, and a symbol of the unified nature of the nation's peoples. Each of the [[Sihedron]]'s arms is made of a different skymetal, symbolizing how the nation of Thassilon was made of different races-Azlanti, [[Varisia]]n, Shoanti, giant, elf, and others. Xin went further than merely making the [[Sihedron]] a symbol of harmony and diversity, though, and built into its functionality significant advantages when the artifact is shared among a number of allies. The [[power]]s granted by the [[Sihedron]] are greatest when it is used not by a lone individual, but by a group that works together toward a common goal, and whose members trust each other enough to effortlessly pass control of the [[power]]ful item between themselves swiftly and without a second thought. Alas, Xin's ideals for the diversity of Thassilon were misplaced, and even as his rule continued, he found himself increasingly paranoid and unwilling to share the [[power]]s granted by the [[Sihedron]]. The fact that the item was intended to be a [[power]]ful shared artifact but has never properly been used in this manner is one of the greatest ironies of Thassilon. The [[Sihedron]] itself is a relatively plain-looking item. The seven different hues of its composite metals help to give it some color, but the artifact lacks any of the decorative runes and markings that are so common on other Thassilonian artifacts. Even the artifact itself, built in the image of the sign of Lissala and the rune for the Thassilonian schools of magic, seems somewhat plain, lacking the [[Sihedron]] rune's distinctive hooklike shapes along its arms. In fact, these hooks are represented in the device by the placement of the seven ioun stone receptacles. Once the [[Sihedron]] is activated, it glows with a warm yellow light that sheds illumination as if via a daylight spell. To activate the [[Sihedron]], a person need only touch the center of the star where all seven arms meet and concentrate as a swift action-the [[Sihedron]] immediately rises up into the air behind the user's head like a halo and floats along behind him wherever he goes, even teleporting along with him. Although the [[Sihedron]] is not in physical contact with the user, it is in all ways treated as if it were an attended object being held or carried. The [[Sihedron]] implants knowledge of all its [[power]]s and how to activate them into the mind of anyone who activates it in this way. Once activated, the [[Sihedron]] protects its user in a number of ways. First, it constantly infuses the wearer with magical energy, granting him fast healing 5. Second, it grants the user the constant effects of a foresight spell (providing a +2 insight bonus to AC and on Reflex saves, and preventing the user from ever being surprised or flat-footed). Third, up to once per day, the [[Sihedron]] can target its wearer with true resurrection the instant he is slain-he need not activate this [[power]], as the [[Sihedron]] automatically triggers if the user is killed. When the user activates the [[Sihedron]], he may select one of the star's points to be "ascendant." The [[Sihedron]] rotates so that this point is pointing upward, and he immediately gains an additional defense and the use of a spell-like ability, usable at will, as detailed below. The user may change which point is ascendant as a standard action by concentrating, but cannot change the point to an "oppositional" point. The effects granted by each of the [[Sihedron]]'s points (as well as the two oppositional points for each) are listed at the end of this item description. As an immediate action (but no more often than once during any single combat round), the current user of the [[Sihedron]] may cause the artifact to instantaneously transfer itself to another willing creature within 120 feet. The [[Sihedron]] teleports from the current user and appears behind the head of the target creature. As it does so, it unleashes a surge of potent magic that affects both of these creatures, granting a +2 insight bonus on all saving throws for 1 round and healing each creature of 2d8+10 points of damage. This transfer occurs so quickly that it can grant the bonus on a saving throw after the saving throw itself has been rolled, but it must be made before the result of that role is confirmed by the GM. Likewise, the healing granted can occur in the instant before a creature actually takes damage from any source, which could heal a heavily wounded target before the additional damage renders it unconscious or even kills it. When the [[Sihedron]] is granted to a new target in this manner, the new target can automatically select which point of the [[Sihedron]] is ascendant, even if the point selected is oppositional to the previously active point. Each of the [[Sihedron]]'s arms contains an ioun stone embedded in a small receptacle. These ioun stones cannot be removed as long as the [[Sihedron]] is whole, and they help to [[power]] the following additional abilities when one of the points is ascendant. Charity: Grants a +4 insight bonus to AC and dimensional anchor as a spell-like ability. Opposed by kindness and temperance. Generosity: Grants a +4 insight bonus on attack rolls and beast shape II as a spell-like ability. Opposed by humility and love. Humility: Grants a +8 insight bonus on skill checks and greater invisibility as a spell-like ability. Opposed by generosity and zeal. Kindness: Grants a +4 insight bonus on weapon damage rolls and ice storm as a spell-like ability. Opposed by charity and zeal. Love: Grants a +8 insight bonus on initiative checks and charm monster as a spell-like ability. Opposed by generosity and temperance. Temperance: Grants fast healing 10 (this replaces the standard fast healing granted by the [[Sihedron]]) and fear as a spell-like ability. Opposed by charity and love. Zeal: Grants a +8 insight bonus on concentration and caster level checks and dimension door as a spell-like ability. Opposed by humility and kindness.
Requirements: 0
Cost: 0
Group: Artifact
Source: AP 66
AL: 0
Int: 0
Wis: 0
Cha: 0
Ego: 0
Communication: 0
Senses: 0
Powers: 0
MagicItems: 0
FullText: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Sihedron]] (Major Artifact)</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>Aura </b>overwhelming (all schools); <b>CL </b>25th</h5><h5><b>Slot </b>none; <b>Weight </b>7 lbs.</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>The <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> is a seven-pointed star that symbolizes the [[power]] of Thassilonian magic. Xin created the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> as more than just a symbol of his [[power]] over the schools of magic he'd defined for his nation, though. It was initially meant to be a badge of his [[power]] over all of Thassilon, and a symbol of the unified nature of the nation's peoples. Each of the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i>'s arms is made of a different skymetal, symbolizing how the nation of Thassilon was made of different races-Azlanti, [[Varisia]]n, Shoanti, giant, elf, and others. Xin went further than merely making the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> a symbol of harmony and diversity, though, and built into its functionality significant advantages when the artifact is shared among a number of allies. The [[power]]s granted by the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> are greatest when it is used not by a lone individual, but by a group that works together toward a common goal, and whose members trust each other enough to effortlessly pass control of the [[power]]ful item between themselves swiftly and without a second thought. Alas, Xin's ideals for the diversity of Thassilon were misplaced, and even as his rule continued, he found himself increasingly paranoid and unwilling to share the [[power]]s granted by the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i>. The fact that the item was intended to be a [[power]]ful shared artifact but has never properly been used in this manner is one of the greatest ironies of Thassilon. The <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> itself is a relatively plain-looking item. The seven different hues of its composite metals help to give it some color, but the artifact lacks any of the decorative runes and markings that are so common on other Thassilonian artifacts. Even the artifact itself, built in the image of the sign of Lissala and the rune for the Thassilonian schools of magic, seems somewhat plain, lacking the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> rune's distinctive hooklike shapes along its arms. In fact, these hooks are represented in the device by the placement of the seven <i>ioun stone</i> receptacles. Once the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> is activated, it glows with a warm yellow light that sheds illumination as if via a <i>daylight</i> spell. To activate the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i>, a person need only touch the center of the star where all seven arms meet and concentrate as a swift action-the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> immediately rises up into the air behind the user's head like a halo and floats along behind him wherever he goes, even teleporting along with him. Although the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> is not in physical contact with the user, it is in all ways treated as if it were an attended object being held or carried. The <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> implants knowledge of all its [[power]]s and how to activate them into the mind of anyone who activates it in this way. Once activated, the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> protects its user in a number of ways. First, it constantly infuses the wearer with magical energy, granting him fast healing 5. Second, it grants the user the constant effects of a <i>foresight</i> spell (providing a +2 insight bonus to AC and on Reflex saves, and preventing the user from ever being surprised or flat-footed). Third, up to once per day, the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> can target its wearer with <i>true resurrection</i> the instant he is slain-he need not activate this [[power]], as the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> automatically triggers if the user is killed. When the user activates the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i>, he may select one of the star's points to be "ascendant." The <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> rotates so that this point is pointing upward, and he immediately gains an additional defense and the use of a spell-like ability, usable at will, as detailed below. The user may change which point is ascendant as a standard action by concentrating, but cannot change the point to an "oppositional" point. The effects granted by each of the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i>'s points (as well as the two oppositional points for each) are listed at the end of this item description. As an immediate action (but no more often than once during any single combat round), the current user of the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> may cause the artifact to instantaneously transfer itself to another willing creature within 120 feet. The <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> teleports from the current user and appears behind the head of the target creature. As it does so, it unleashes a surge of potent magic that affects both of these creatures, granting a +2 insight bonus on all saving throws for 1 round and healing each creature of 2d8+10 points of damage. This transfer occurs so quickly that it can grant the bonus on a saving throw after the saving throw itself has been rolled, but it must be made before the result of that role is confirmed by the GM. Likewise, the healing granted can occur in the instant before a creature actually takes damage from any source, which could heal a heavily wounded target before the additional damage renders it unconscious or even kills it. When the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> is granted to a new target in this manner, the new target can automatically select which point of the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> is ascendant, even if the point selected is oppositional to the previously active point. Each of the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i>'s arms contains an <i>ioun stone</i> embedded in a small receptacle. These <i>ioun stone</i>s cannot be removed as long as the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> is whole, and they help to [[power]] the following additional abilities when one of the points is ascendant. <b>Charity</b>: Grants a +4 insight bonus to AC and <i>dimensional anchor</i> as a spell-like ability. Opposed by kindness and temperance. <b>Generosity</b>: Grants a +4 insight bonus on attack rolls and <i>beast shape II</i> as a spell-like ability. Opposed by humility and love. <b>Humility</b>: Grants a +8 insight bonus on skill checks and <i>greater invisibility</i> as a spell-like ability. Opposed by generosity and zeal. <b>Kindness</b>: Grants a +4 insight bonus on weapon damage rolls and <i>ice storm</i> as a spell-like ability. Opposed by charity and zeal. <b>Love</b>: Grants a +8 insight bonus on initiative checks and <i>charm monster</i> as a spell-like ability. Opposed by generosity and temperance. <b>Temperance</b>: Grants fast healing 10 (this replaces the standard fast healing granted by the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i>) and <i>fear</i> as a spell-like ability. Opposed by charity and love. <b>Zeal</b>: Grants a +8 insight bonus on concentration and caster level checks and <i>dimension door</i> as a spell-like ability. Opposed by humility and kindness.</p></h4></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESTRUCTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>The <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> must be crushed under the foot of the Oliphaunt of Jandelay while it is being used by a character who willingly allows himself (along with the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i>) to be so destroyed. Xin was able to cause the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i> to break apart into its seven shards as an immediate action. Doing so causes an explosive blast of magical [[power]] capable of laying waste to a huge portion of the surrounding landscape as well as instantly slaying Xin, his rune giant assassin, and many other occupants of his palace. This did not destroy the <i>[[Sihedron]]</i>, however, and once the artifact is reforged, no known force can cause it to explode in this manner a second time.</p></h4></div>
[[Destruction]]: The [[Sihedron]] must be crushed under the foot of the Oliphaunt of Jandelay while it is being used by a character who willingly allows himself (along with the [[Sihedron]]) to be so destroyed. Xin was able to cause the [[Sihedron]] to break apart into its seven shards as an immediate action. Doing so causes an explosive blast of magical [[power]] capable of laying waste to a huge portion of the surrounding landscape as well as instantly slaying Xin, his rune giant assassin, and many other occupants of his palace. This did not destroy the [[Sihedron]], however, and once the artifact is reforged, no known force can cause it to explode in this manner a second time.
MinorArtifactFlag: 0
MajorArtifactFlag: 1
Abjuration: 0
Conjuration: 0
[[Divination]]: 0
Enchantment: 0
Evocation: 0
Necromancy: 0
Transmutation: 0
AuraStrength: none
WeightValue: 7.0
PriceValue: 0
CostValue: 0
Languages: 0
BaseItem: 0
LinkText: 0
id: 2642
Mythic: 0
LegendaryWeapon: 0
Illusion: 0
Universal: 0
effects: 0
