name: [[Sunburst]]
school: evocation
subschool: 0
descriptor: light
spell_level: [[druid]] 8, [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 8
casting_time: 1 standard action
components: V, S, M/DF (sunstone and fire source)
costly_components: 0
range: long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
area: 80-ft.-radius burst
effect: 0
targets: 0
duration: instantaneous
dismissible: 0
shapeable: 0
saving_throw: Reflex partial; see text
spell_resistence: yes
description: [[Sunburst]] causes a globe of searing radiance to explode silently from a point you select. All creatures in the globe are blinded and take 6d6 points of damage. A creature to which sunlight is harmful or unnatural takes double damage. A successful Reflex save negates the blindness and reduces the damage by half.  An undead creature caught within the globe takes 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 25d6), or half damage if a Reflex save is successful. In addition, the burst results in the destruction of any undead creature specifically harmed by bright light if it fails its save.  The ultraviolet light generated by the spell deals damage to fungi, mold, oozes, and slimes just as if they were undead creatures.  [[Sunburst]] dispels any darkness spells of lower than 9th level within its area.
description_formated: <p><i>[[Sunburst]]</i> causes a globe of searing radiance to explode silently from a point you select. All creatures in the globe are blinded and take 6d6 points of damage. A creature to which sunlight is harmful or unnatural takes double damage. A successful Reflex save negates the blindness and reduces the damage by half.</p><p>An undead creature caught within the globe takes 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 25d6), or half damage if a Reflex save is successful. In addition, the burst results in the destruction of any undead creature specifically harmed by bright light if it fails its save.</p><p>The ultraviolet light generated by the spell deals damage to fungi, mold, oozes, and slimes just as if they were undead creatures.</p><p><i>[[Sunburst]]</i> dispels any darkness spells of lower than 9th level within its area.</p>
source: PFRPG Core
full_text: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Sunburst]]</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>School </b>evocation [light]; <b>Level </b>[[druid]] 8, [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 8</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>CASTING</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Casting Time </b>1 standard action</h5><h5><b>Components </b>V, S, M/DF (sunstone and fire source)</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>EFFECT</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Range </b>long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)</h5><h5><b>Area </b>80-ft.-radius burst</h5><h5><b>Duration </b>instantaneous</h5><h5><b>Saving Throw </b>Reflex partial; see text; <b>Spell [[Resistance]] </b>yes</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p><i>[[Sunburst]]</i> causes a globe of searing radiance to explode silently from a point you select. All creatures in the globe are blinded and take 6d6 points of damage. A creature to which sunlight is harmful or unnatural takes double damage. A successful Reflex save negates the blindness and reduces the damage by half.</p><p>An undead creature caught within the globe takes 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 25d6), or half damage if a Reflex save is successful. In addition, the burst results in the destruction of any undead creature specifically harmed by bright light if it fails its save.</p><p>The ultraviolet light generated by the spell deals damage to fungi, mold, oozes, and slimes just as if they were undead creatures.</p><p><i>[[Sunburst]]</i> dispels any darkness spells of lower than 9th level within its area.</p></h4></div>
verbal: 1
somatic: 1
material: 1
[[focus]]: 0
divine_[[focus]]: 1
sor: 8.0
wiz: 8.0
[[cleric]]: 0
[[druid]]: 8.0
[[ranger]]: 0
[[bard]]: 0
[[paladin]]: 0
deity: 0
