Name: [[Totem of Angazhan]]
Aura: strong necromancy and transmutation
CL: 20
Slot: item
Price: 0
Weight: 150 lbs.
Description: A totem of Angazhan is a dangerous and sinister artifact created by the demon lord Angazhan-originally, only one such totem existed, but as the reach of the Gorilla King expanded, additional totems began to appear in various hidden parts of the Mwangi Expanse, especially to the south of the Screaming Jungle in the deep, unexplored center of Garund. Each totem of Angazhan possesses a crude intelligence and can observe the [[world]] around it via true seeing. It can also hear and possesses tremorsense. All three of these senses extend to a range of 30 feet; the totem cannot detect anything beyond this range. A totem of Angazhan constantly radiates an aura of fear that fills the minds of any creatures within 30 feet with cruel memories of past lives in which they were consumed alive by apes-whether or not these past deaths are accurate is irrelevant to the sensation of horror they invoke in victims. All non-worshipers of Angazhan within this area must make a DC 15 Will save each round to avoid becoming panicked for 1 round. This is a mind-affecting fear effect. Once per round, a totem of Angazhan can cast weird. This is its primary means of defense, and it can target all creatures within 30 feet that it can sense. The effect manifests at caster level 20th, and has a save DC of 23. Once per day, a totem of Angazhan can reincarnate a single creature that dies within 30 feet of it. Unlike the spell of the same name, the reincarnated creature always returns to life as a Chaotic Evil charau-ka. A creature reincarnated as a charau-ka gains +4 Str, +2 Dex, and +4 Con. Once per year, the totem may instead use its reincarnate ability to bring a creature back to life as a Chaotic Evil dire ape-it is this ability that creates the creatures that go on to become Gorilla Kings. A creature reincarnated as a dire ape gains +8 Str, +4 Dex, and +6 Con. When a new dire ape champion is created, it becomes infused with a desire to seek out the current Gorilla King and challenge him to a fight to the death-the survivor continues ruling as the Gorilla King for another year. In this fashion, the Mwangi Expanse has never gone for more than several months without a Gorilla King for the past several hundred years. As with all reincarnate effects, the creature being restored to life must be willing for the effect to work-the creature to be reincarnated knows that accepting the offer to come back to life enslaves its soul to Angazhan (resulting in the shift to Chaotic Evil and the drive to seek out and replace the current Gorilla King). If a totem of Angazhan is placed upon or adjacent to an altar of Angazhan that is under the effect of an unhallow spell cast by a worshiper of Angazhan, the totem of Angazhan's sensory range extends to 300 feet, and it can use its abilities in this extended range as long as it has line of sight to its target.
Requirements: 0
Cost: 0
Group: Artifact
Source: AP 42
AL: 0
Int: 0
Wis: 0
Cha: 0
Ego: 0
Communication: 0
Senses: 0
Powers: 0
MagicItems: 0
FullText: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Totem of Angazhan]] (Minor Artifact)</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>Aura </b>strong necromancy and transmutation; <b>CL </b>20th</h5><h5><b>Slot </b>none; <b>Weight </b>150 lbs.</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>A <i><i>totem of</i> Angazhan</i> is a dangerous and sinister artifact created by the demon lord Angazhan-originally, only one such totem existed, but as the reach of the Gorilla King expanded, additional totems began to appear in various hidden parts of the Mwangi Expanse, especially to the south of the Screaming Jungle in the deep, unexplored center of Garund.</p><p>Each <i><i>totem of</i> Angazhan</i> possesses a crude intelligence and can observe the [[world]] around it via <i>true seeing</i>. It can also hear and possesses tremorsense. All three of these senses extend to a range of 30 feet; the totem cannot detect anything beyond this range. A <i><i>totem of</i> Angazhan</i> constantly radiates an aura of fear that fills the minds of any creatures within 30 feet with cruel memories of past lives in which they were consumed alive by apes-whether or not these past deaths are accurate is irrelevant to the sensation of horror they invoke in victims. All non-worshipers of Angazhan within this area must make a DC 15 Will save each round to avoid becoming panicked for 1 round. This is a mind-affecting fear effect.</p><p>Once per round, a <i><i>totem of</i> Angazhan</i> can cast <i>weird</i>. This is its primary means of defense, and it can target all creatures within 30 feet that it can sense. The effect manifests at caster level 20th, and has a save DC of 23.</p><p>Once per day, a <i><i>totem of</i> Angazhan</i> can <i>reincarnate</i> a single creature that dies within 30 feet of it. Unlike the spell of the same name, the <i>reincarnate</i>d creature always returns to life as a Chaotic Evil charau-ka. A creature <i>reincarnate</i>d as a charau-ka gains +4 Str, +2 Dex, and +4 Con.</p><p>Once per year, the totem may instead use its <i>reincarnate</i> ability to bring a creature back to life as a Chaotic Evil dire ape-it is this ability that creates the creatures that go on to become Gorilla Kings. A creature <i>reincarnate</i>d as a dire ape gains +8 Str, +4 Dex, and +6 Con.</p><p>When a new dire ape champion is created, it becomes infused with a desire to seek out the current Gorilla King and challenge him to a fight to the death-the survivor continues ruling as the Gorilla King for another year. In this fashion, the Mwangi Expanse has never gone for more than several months without a Gorilla King for the past several hundred years. As with all <i>reincarnate</i> effects, the creature being restored to life must be willing for the effect to work-the creature to be <i>reincarnate</i>d knows that accepting the offer to come back to life enslaves its soul to Angazhan (resulting in the shift to Chaotic Evil and the drive to seek out and replace the current Gorilla King).</p><p>If a <i><i>totem of</i> Angazhan</i> is placed upon or adjacent to an altar of Angazhan that is under the effect of an <i>unhallow</i> spell cast by a worshiper of Angazhan, the <i><i>totem of</i> Angazhan</i>'s sensory range extends to 300 feet, and it can use its abilities in this extended range as long as it has line of sight to its target.</p></h4></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESTRUCTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>A <i><i>totem of</i> Angazhan</i> can be destroyed only by a Gorilla King (either acting on his own volition or while under the effects of magical control), who can damage the totem as if it were a normal item with hardness 8 and 100 hp (or with a DC 30 Strength check to break the totem in half ). Of course, once a Gorilla King makes his first attack upon one of these totems, the blasphemy against Angazhan causes that Gorilla King to no longer count as a worshiper of Angazhan, and he can now be affected by the totem's fear aura. Worse, the affront allows the <i><i>totem of</i> Angazhan</i> to attempt once per round to revoke that Gorilla King's <i>reincarnate</i>d body. Each round the blasphemous Gorilla King remains within reach of the totem's senses, the Gorilla King must make a DC 25 Fortitude save to avoid being transformed back into whatever race the creature was before he was <i>reincarnate</i>d. Once this occurs, the target is no longer a Gorilla King and can no longer damage the totem, but the totem continues to use <i>weird</i> to attempt to slay the creature as long as it is able.</p></h4></div>
[[Destruction]]: A totem of Angazhan can be destroyed only by a Gorilla King (either acting on his own volition or while under the effects of magical control), who can damage the totem as if it were a normal item with hardness 8 and 100 hp (or with a DC 30 Strength check to break the totem in half ). Of course, once a Gorilla King makes his first attack upon one of these totems, the blasphemy against Angazhan causes that Gorilla King to no longer count as a worshiper of Angazhan, and he can now be affected by the totem's fear aura. Worse, the affront allows the totem of Angazhan to attempt once per round to revoke that Gorilla King's reincarnated body. Each round the blasphemous Gorilla King remains within reach of the totem's senses, the Gorilla King must make a DC 25 Fortitude save to avoid being transformed back into whatever race the creature was before he was reincarnated. Once this occurs, the target is no longer a Gorilla King and can no longer damage the totem, but the totem continues to use weird to attempt to slay the creature as long as it is able.
MinorArtifactFlag: 1
MajorArtifactFlag: 0
Abjuration: 0
Conjuration: 0
[[Divination]]: 0
Enchantment: 0
Evocation: 0
Necromancy: 1
Transmutation: 1
AuraStrength: strong
WeightValue: 150.0
PriceValue: 0
CostValue: 0
Languages: 0
BaseItem: 0
LinkText: 0
id: 902
Mythic: 0
LegendaryWeapon: 0
Illusion: 0
Universal: 0
effects: 0
