Name: [[Wardstone]]
Aura: strong abjuration
CL: 20
Slot: item
Price: 0
Weight: 2,500 lbs.
Description: When the [[Worldwound]] destroyed the nation of Sarkoris, the faithful of [[Iomedae]] seized upon the event as a balm against the horror of Aroden's death. The invention of the first wardstones, giant menhirs infused with holy magic meant to contain and repel demonic creatures, was perhaps the greatest result of the crusader's initial response to Sarkoris's destruction. Today, dozens of wardstones stand sentinel along the borders of the [[Worldwound]]. The primary purpose of the wardstones is to contain the growing influence of the [[Worldwound]] itself, but they also exude a [[power]]ful field similar to that generated by a forbiddance spell. A single wardstone exerts this aura in a 300-foot radius, but when multiple wardstones are linked (as in the case of those running along the border of the [[Worldwound]]), they create a 300-footwide path of forbiddance, with the wardstones running down the middle. The forbiddance area, be it a radius or path, deals 12d6 points of damage per round to any demon within that area (DC 18 Will save half; spell resistance applies). [[Teleport]]ation effects do not function in this zone at all. The wardstones that bolster the eastern and southern borders of the [[Worldwound]] have a further effect as well-[[focus]]ed on the [[Worldwound]] as they are, they prevent demons from teleporting into or out of the [[Worldwound]] and effectively contain the threat. The arrangement of the wardstones along the [[Mendev]], [[Numeria]], and [[Ustalav]] borders is such that even the unwarded borders to the west and north work to hamper demonic incursions.
Requirements: 0
Cost: 0
Group: Artifact
Source: Inner Sea World Guide
AL: 0
Int: 0
Wis: 0
Cha: 0
Ego: 0
Communication: 0
Senses: 0
Powers: 0
MagicItems: 0
FullText: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Wardstone]] (Minor Artifact)</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>Aura </b>strong abjuration; <b>CL </b>20th</h5><h5><b>Slot </b>none; <b>Weight </b>2,500 lbs.</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>When the [[Worldwound]] destroyed the nation of Sarkoris, the faithful of [[Iomedae]] seized upon the event as a balm against the horror of Aroden's death. The invention of the first <i><i>wardstone</i>s</i>, giant menhirs infused with holy magic meant to contain and repel demonic creatures, was perhaps the greatest result of the crusader's initial response to Sarkoris's destruction. Today, dozens of <i><i>wardstone</i>s</i> stand sentinel along the borders of the [[Worldwound]].</p><p>The primary purpose of the <i><i>wardstone</i>s</i> is to contain the growing influence of the [[Worldwound]] itself, but they also exude a [[power]]ful field similar to that generated by a <i>forbiddance</i> spell. A single <i>wardstone</i> exerts this aura in a 300-foot radius, but when multiple <i><i>wardstone</i>s</i> are linked (as in the case of those running along the border of the [[Worldwound]]), they create a 300-footwide path of <i>forbiddance</i>, with the <i><i>wardstone</i>s</i> running down the middle. The <i>forbiddance</i> area, be it a radius or path, deals 12d6 points of damage per round to any demon within that area (DC 18 Will save half; spell resistance applies). [[Teleport]]ation effects do not function in this zone at all. The <i><i>wardstone</i>s</i> that bolster the eastern and southern borders of the [[Worldwound]] have a further effect as well-[[focus]]ed on the [[Worldwound]] as they are, they prevent demons from teleporting into or out of the [[Worldwound]] and effectively contain the threat. The arrangement of the <i><i>wardstone</i>s</i> along the [[Mendev]], [[Numeria]], and [[Ustalav]] borders is such that even the unwarded borders to the west and north work to hamper demonic incursions.</p></h4></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESTRUCTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p>If a <i>wardstone</i> misses its yearly maintenance ritual, it becomes vulnerable to damage. At this point, a <i>wardstone</i> can be damaged by mortal attacks, but it still has hardness 25 and 500 hit points. If a <i>wardstone</i> along a series of linked <i><i>wardstone</i>s</i> is destroyed, the resulting "hole" in the path of the <i>forbiddance</i> effect can be as narrow as a few dozen feet or as wide as several miles, depending upon numerous other variables (such as the terrain, the strength of the other <i><i>wardstone</i>s</i>, and other factors).</p></h4></div>
[[Destruction]]: If a wardstone misses its yearly maintenance ritual, it becomes vulnerable to damage. At this point, a wardstone can be damaged by mortal attacks, but it still has hardness 25 and 500 hit points. If a wardstone along a series of linked wardstones is destroyed, the resulting "hole" in the path of the forbiddance effect can be as narrow as a few dozen feet or as wide as several miles, depending upon numerous other variables (such as the terrain, the strength of the other wardstones, and other factors).
MinorArtifactFlag: 1
MajorArtifactFlag: 0
Abjuration: 1
Conjuration: 0
[[Divination]]: 0
Enchantment: 0
Evocation: 0
Necromancy: 0
Transmutation: 0
AuraStrength: strong
WeightValue: 2500.0
PriceValue: 0
CostValue: 0
Languages: 0
BaseItem: 0
LinkText: 0
id: 918
Mythic: 0
LegendaryWeapon: 0
Illusion: 0
Universal: 0
effects: 0
