name: [[Wish]]
school: universal
subschool: 0
descriptor: 0
spell_level: [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 9
casting_time: 1 standard action
components: V, S, M (diamond worth 25,000 gp)
costly_components: 1
range: see text
area: see text
effect: see text
targets: see text
duration: see text
dismissible: 0
shapeable: 0
saving_throw: none; see text
spell_resistence: yes
description: [[Wish]] is the mightiest spell a [[wizard]] or [[sorcerer]] can cast. By simply speaking aloud, you can alter reality to better suit you. Even wish, however, has its limits. A wish can produce any one of the following effects. • Duplicate any [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 8th level or lower, provided the spell does not belong to one of your opposition schools. • Duplicate any non-[[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 7th level or lower, provided the spell does not belong to one of your opposition schools. • Duplicate any [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 7th level or lower, even if it belongs to one of your opposition schools. • Duplicate any non-[[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 6th level or lower, even if it belongs to one of your opposition schools. • Undo the harmful effects of many other spells, such as geas/ quest or insanity. • Grant a creature a +1 inherent bonus to an ability score. Two to five wish spells cast in immediate succession can grant a creature a +2 to +5 inherent bonus to an ability score (two wishes for a +2 inherent bonus, three wishes for a +3 inherent bonus, and so on). Inherent bonuses are instantaneous, so they cannot be dispelled. Note: An inherent bonus may not exceed +5 for a single ability score, and inherent bonuses to a particular ability score do not stack, so only the best one applies. • Remove injuries and afflictions. A single wish can aid one creature per caster level, and all subjects are cured of the same kind of affliction. For example, you could heal all the damage you and your companions have taken, or remove all poison effects from everyone in the party, but not do both with the same wish. • Revive the dead. A wish can bring a dead creature back to life by duplicating a resurrection spell. A wish can revive a dead creature whose body has been destroyed, but the task takes two wishes: one to recreate the body and another to infuse the body with life again. A wish cannot prevent a character who was brought back to life from gaining a permanent negative level. • Transport travelers. A wish can lift one creature per caster level from anywhere on any plane and place those creatures anywhere else on any plane regardless of local conditions. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate the effect, and spell resistance (if any) applies. • Undo misfortune. A wish can undo a single recent event. The wish forces a reroll of any roll made within the last round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes itself to accommodate the new result. For example, a wish could undo an opponent's successful save, a foe's successful critical hit (either the attack roll or the critical roll), a friend's failed save, and so on. The reroll, however, may be as bad as or worse than the original roll. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate the effect, and spell resistance (if any) applies. You may try to use a wish to produce greater effects than these, but doing so is dangerous. (The wish may pervert your intent into a literal but undesirable fulfillment or only a partial fulfillment, at the GM's discretion.) Duplicated spells allow saves and spell resistance as normal (but save DCs are for 9th-level spells). When a wish duplicates a spell with a material component that costs more than 10,000 gp, you must provide that component (in addition to the 25,000 gp diamond component for this spell).
description_formated: <p><i>[[Wish]] is</i> the mightiest spell a [[wizard]] or [[sorcerer]] can cast. By simply speaking aloud, you can alter reality to better suit you. Even <i><i>wish</i>,</i> however, has its limits. A <i>wish</i> can produce any one of the following effects.</p><p><ul><li> Duplicate any [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 8th level or lower, provided the spell does not belong to one of your opposition schools.</p><p><li> Duplicate any non-[[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 7th level or lower, provided the spell does not belong to one of your opposition schools.</p><p><li> Duplicate any [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 7th level or lower, even if it belongs to one of your opposition schools.</p><p><li> Duplicate any non-[[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 6th level or lower, even if it belongs to one of your opposition schools.</p><p><li> Undo the harmful effects of many other spells, such as <i>geas/ quest</i> or <i>insanity.</i></p><p><li> Grant a creature a +1 inherent bonus to an ability score. Two to five <i>wish</i> spells cast in immediate succession can grant a creature a +2 to +5 inherent bonus to an ability score (two <i>wish</i>es for a +2 inherent bonus, three <i>wish</i>es for a +3 inherent bonus, and so on).</p><p>Inherent bonuses are instantaneous, so they cannot be dispelled.</p><p><i>Note:</i> An inherent bonus may not exceed +5 for a single ability score, and inherent bonuses to a particular ability score do not stack, so only the best one applies.</p><p><li> Remove injuries and afflictions. A single <i>wish</i> can aid one creature per caster level, and all subjects are cured of the same kind of affliction. For example, you could heal all the damage you and your companions have taken, or remove all poison effects from everyone in the party, but not do both with the same <i>wish</i>.</p><p><li> Revive the dead. A <i>wish</i> can bring a dead creature back to life by duplicating a <i>resurrection</i> spell. A <i>wish</i> can revive a dead creature whose body has been destroyed, but the task takes two <i>wish</i>es: one to recreate the body and another to infuse the body with life again. A <i>wish</i> cannot prevent a character who was brought back to life from gaining a permanent negative level.</p><p><li> Transport travelers. A <i>wish</i> can lift one creature per caster level from anywhere on any plane and place those creatures anywhere else on any plane regardless of local conditions. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate the effect, and spell resistance (if any) applies.</p><p><li> Undo misfortune. A <i>wish</i> can undo a single recent event.</p><p>The <i>wish</i> forces a reroll of any roll made within the last round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes itself to accommodate the new result. For example, a <i>wish</i> could undo an opponent's successful save, a foe's successful critical hit (either the attack roll or the critical roll), a friend's failed save, and so on. The reroll, however, may be as bad as or worse than the original roll. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate the effect, and spell resistance (if any) applies.</ul></p><p>You may try to use a <i>wish</i> to produce greater effects than these, but doing so is dangerous. (The <i>wish</i> may pervert your intent into a literal but undesirable fulfillment or only a partial fulfillment, at the GM's discretion.) Duplicated spells allow saves and spell resistance as normal (but save DCs are for 9th-level spells).</p><p>When a <i>wish</i> duplicates a spell with a material component that costs more than 10,000 gp, you must provide that component (in addition to the 25,000 gp diamond component for this spell).</p>
source: PFRPG Core
full_text: <link rel="stylesheet"href="PF.css"><div class="heading"><p class="alignleft">[[Wish]]</p><div style="clear: both;"></div></div><div><h5><b>School </b>universal; <b>Level </b>[[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] 9</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>CASTING</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Casting Time </b>1 standard action</h5><h5><b>Components </b>V, S, M (diamond worth 25,000 gp)</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>EFFECT</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>Range </b>see text</h5><h5><b>Area </b>see text</h5><h5><b>Targets </b>see text</h5><h5><b>Effect </b>see text</h5><h5><b>Duration </b>see text</h5><h5><b>Saving Throw </b>none; see text; <b>Spell [[Resistance]] </b>yes</h5></div><hr/><div><h5><b>DESCRIPTION</b></h5></div><hr/><div><h4><p><i>[[Wish]] is</i> the mightiest spell a [[wizard]] or [[sorcerer]] can cast. By simply speaking aloud, you can alter reality to better suit you. Even <i><i>wish</i>,</i> however, has its limits. A <i>wish</i> can produce any one of the following effects.</p><p><ul><li> Duplicate any [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 8th level or lower, provided the spell does not belong to one of your opposition schools.</p><p><li> Duplicate any non-[[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 7th level or lower, provided the spell does not belong to one of your opposition schools.</p><p><li> Duplicate any [[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 7th level or lower, even if it belongs to one of your opposition schools.</p><p><li> Duplicate any non-[[sorcerer]]/[[wizard]] spell of 6th level or lower, even if it belongs to one of your opposition schools.</p><p><li> Undo the harmful effects of many other spells, such as <i>geas/ quest</i> or <i>insanity.</i></p><p><li> Grant a creature a +1 inherent bonus to an ability score. Two to five <i>wish</i> spells cast in immediate succession can grant a creature a +2 to +5 inherent bonus to an ability score (two <i>wish</i>es for a +2 inherent bonus, three <i>wish</i>es for a +3 inherent bonus, and so on).</p><p>Inherent bonuses are instantaneous, so they cannot be dispelled.</p><p><i>Note:</i> An inherent bonus may not exceed +5 for a single ability score, and inherent bonuses to a particular ability score do not stack, so only the best one applies.</p><p><li> Remove injuries and afflictions. A single <i>wish</i> can aid one creature per caster level, and all subjects are cured of the same kind of affliction. For example, you could heal all the damage you and your companions have taken, or remove all poison effects from everyone in the party, but not do both with the same <i>wish</i>.</p><p><li> Revive the dead. A <i>wish</i> can bring a dead creature back to life by duplicating a <i>resurrection</i> spell. A <i>wish</i> can revive a dead creature whose body has been destroyed, but the task takes two <i>wish</i>es: one to recreate the body and another to infuse the body with life again. A <i>wish</i> cannot prevent a character who was brought back to life from gaining a permanent negative level.</p><p><li> Transport travelers. A <i>wish</i> can lift one creature per caster level from anywhere on any plane and place those creatures anywhere else on any plane regardless of local conditions. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate the effect, and spell resistance (if any) applies.</p><p><li> Undo misfortune. A <i>wish</i> can undo a single recent event.</p><p>The <i>wish</i> forces a reroll of any roll made within the last round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes itself to accommodate the new result. For example, a <i>wish</i> could undo an opponent's successful save, a foe's successful critical hit (either the attack roll or the critical roll), a friend's failed save, and so on. The reroll, however, may be as bad as or worse than the original roll. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate the effect, and spell resistance (if any) applies.</ul></p><p>You may try to use a <i>wish</i> to produce greater effects than these, but doing so is dangerous. (The <i>wish</i> may pervert your intent into a literal but undesirable fulfillment or only a partial fulfillment, at the GM's discretion.) Duplicated spells allow saves and spell resistance as normal (but save DCs are for 9th-level spells).</p><p>When a <i>wish</i> duplicates a spell with a material component that costs more than 10,000 gp, you must provide that component (in addition to the 25,000 gp diamond component for this spell).</p></h4></div>
verbal: 1
somatic: 1
material: 1
[[focus]]: 0
divine_[[focus]]: 0
sor: 9.0
wiz: 9.0
[[cleric]]: 0
[[druid]]: 0
[[ranger]]: 0
[[bard]]: 0
[[paladin]]: 0
deity: 0
